[[Bodkhe_et+al_BlockchainIndustry40ComprehensiveReview_2020]]

# [Blockchain for Industry 4.0: A Comprehensive Review](https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2020.2988579)

## [[Umesh Bodkhe]]; [[Sudeep Tanwar]]; [[Karan Parekh]] et al.

## Abstract
Due to the proliferation of ICT during the last few decades, there is an exponential increase in the usage of various smart applications such as smart farming, smart healthcare, supply-chain & logistics, business, tourism and hospitality, energy management etc. However, for all the aforementioned applications, security and privacy are major concerns keeping in view of the usage of the open channel, i.e., Internet for data transfer. Although many security solutions and standards have been proposed over the years to enhance the security levels of aforementioned smart applications, but the existing solutions are either based upon the centralized architecture (having single point of failure) or having high computation and communication costs. Moreover, most of the existing security solutions have focussed only on few aspects and fail to address scalability, robustness, data storage, network latency, auditability, immutability, and traceability. To handle the aforementioned issues, blockchain technology can be one of the solutions. ==Motivated from these facts, in this paper, we present a systematic review of various blockchain-based solutions and their applicability in various Industry 4.0-based applications==. Our contributions in this paper are in four fold. Firstly, we explored the current state-of-the-art solutions in the blockchain technology for the smart applications. Then, we illustrated the reference architecture used for the blockchain applicability in various Industry 4.0 applications. Then, merits and demerits of the traditional security solutions are also discussed in comparison to their countermeasures. Finally, we provided a comparison of existing blockchain-based security solutions using various parameters to provide deep insights to the readers about its applicability in various applications.

## Key concepts
#internet_of_things; #iot; #claim/blockchain_technology; #blockchain_technology; #supply_chain; #information_technology; #claim/tourism; #tourism; #data_encryption_standard; #logistics; #supply_chain_management; #ethereum; #claim/smart_farming; #smart_farming; #electronic_health_records; #internet_protocol; #radio_frequency_identifications; #application_programming_interfaces; #reference_architecture; #smart_grid

## Quote
> Motivated from these facts, in this paper, we present a systematic review of various blockchain-based solutions and their applicability in various Industry 4.0-based applications

## Key points
- With the wide popularity of Internet and related technologies, various Industry 4.0-based applications have been used across the globe in which sensors and actuators sense, compute and communicate the data for industry automation
- From the above-mentioned proposals, we found that most of the recent surveys on the blockchain technology have concentrated on various smart application areas in Industry 4.0 and its security parameters [^43], [^44]
- SMART FARMING In this case study, we provide insights into the current issues associated with smart farming and how they can be resolved by implementing the blockchain mechanism
- The second part describes the basic architecture of the blockchain technology, including the verification of each transaction in the distributed network which makes a permanent, verified and unalterable nature of ledger for the information or data
- The blockchain reference architecture which consists of three different networks such as public network, cloud network and enterprise network
- The Third part of our paper focuses on the real-time deployment of the blockchain for various applications such as smart healthcare, smart farming, supply-chain & logistics, business, tourism& hospitality, energy, agriculture, digital content distribution, smart city, Internet of Things (IoT), and manufacturing which are considered in the survey part of the paper


## Summary

### INTRODUCTION
With the wide popularity of Internet and related technologies, various Industry 4.0-based applications have been used across the globe in which sensors and actuators sense, compute and communicate the data for industry automation.
As in Industry 4.0-based applications, data between different locations flows using an open channel, i.e., Internet, so threats to security and privacy has increased manyfold [^1].
Weiss et al [^28] discussed about blockchain public healthcare applications
They have explored how the blockchain technology eliminates the centralized authority during the verification process, its digital signatures [^29] for safe data repository, its architecture, and the challenges.
From the above-mentioned proposals, we found that most of the recent surveys on the blockchain technology have concentrated on various smart application areas in Industry 4.0 and its security parameters [^43], [^44].

### RESEARCH CONTRIBUTIONS OF THIS PAPER Following are the research contributions of this paper
A detailed taxonomy of blockchain-based Industry 4.0 applications is presented. A reference architecture having various modules and components for applicability of blockchain in Industry 4.0 is presented.
A detailed taxonomy of blockchain-based Industry 4.0 applications is presented.
A reference architecture having various modules and components for applicability of blockchain in Industry 4.0 is presented.
The merits and demerits of the current security solutions which are applicable in Industry 4.0 are discussed.
The Open issues and challenges in Industry 4.0 based smart applications are presented.
Rest of the paper is organized as follows.

### BACKGROUND
It allows the exchange of values and trust for different users without involving the central authority; Data security: Security compliance is a major and essential requirement of blockchain technology with a legal point of view; Decentralised data storage: It is a basic requirement of the distributed system; Immutability: All the records on the network should not be modified or tampered in the shared ledger
This enables the integrity of the stored data; Consensus: Transactions should only be updated when all the verified users in the network agree for the same; Typed Blocks: It is required for the smart contract and for high speed payment in business transactions.
The log data is recorded in log files for future inspection for the security, governance, or compliance

### BLOCKCHAIN DEPLOYMENT IN SMART APPLICATIONS
Whether the information or data shared among the members of other supply-chain is trustworthy or not
To overcome this issue, authors of [^60] proposed a system called Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP), which provided real-time food tracing information to all SCM members and has features like reliability, openness, neutrality, security, and transparency.
This comparison has been done using parameters such as reliability, encryption, security management, edge computing, architecture, consensus mechanism, threat model, framework implementation, advantages, and disadvantages of the existing approaches

### MANUFACTURING
The process of manufacturing includes several elements such as operations management, asset management, intelligent manufacturing, planning, the interaction of humans and machines, performance optimization, performance monitoring, and end-to-end operational visibility.
Cloud-based manufacturing basically use the centralized networks which have problems such as security, flexibility, availability, and efficiency
To resolve such issues, the authors of [157] discussed and developed a blockchain-based distributed network architecture known as BVmfg.
The authors of [157] discussed and developed a blockchain-based distributed network architecture known as BVmfg
This architecture had a total five layers which improved the trust between the service providers and users for secured service sharing.
To overcome the limitations of the traditional agri-food logistic systems, the authors of [^63] proposed a blockchain and RFID-based agri-food supply chain traceability system
This system significantly improved the quality and safety of food, and reduced the probability of different losses in the conventional logistics process.
The parameters used for this comparison are transparency, reliability, security, architecture, consensus mechanism, traceability system, framework, advantages, and disadvantages of the existing approaches

### OPEN ISSUES AND CHALLENGES
We highlight the open issues and challenges in some application domains such as healthcare, IoT, energy, business, smart city, agriculture, energy, and supply-chain & logistics.
3) ESTABLISHING TRUST In today’s era, how to establish the trust is the major problem for everyone because any third party creates major issues with the ongoing situation or breaches the data and increases the redundancy which makes more difficult to trust anyone
In such scenarios, the blockchain can be used to prevent hampering and establishing the trust as it uses the cryptographic hash for building the blocks and immutable nature of the ledger.

### CASE STUDIES
In order to demonstrate the use of blockchains, we have tried to implement the blockchain technology for two different applications: smart farming and tourism & hospitality.
We have discussed the use of the blockchain technology for a variety of applications such as smart farming, smart healthcare, supply chain & logistics, energy sector, IoT, smart city, business, manufacturing, agriculture, and tourism & hospitality.
We need a perfect tracing and management system for ensuring food safety during each process of production and supply [166]
Customers take the help of online reviews of different tourism products to make a decision
They think that all the reviews of real travelers are honest and true, but most of the tourism & hospitality industry players, (i.e. Hotels, Travel agencies, or restaurants) use centralized platforms to store and maintain these reviews.
All the transactions are maintained through blocks with unique identities which eliminates the creation of duplicate or fake online reviews

### Findings
It has been observed that the consumers can reduce the energy bill by 38%

### CONCLUSION
We provide insights to the readers about the importance of the blockchain technology for various smart applications, where security remains paramount.
This survey is divided into five parts.
The Third part of our paper focuses on the real-time deployment of the blockchain for various applications such as smart healthcare, smart farming, supply-chain & logistics, business, tourism& hospitality, energy, agriculture, digital content distribution, smart city, IoT, and manufacturing which are considered in the survey part of the paper.
To demonstrate the suitability of the blockchain technology for smart applications, the last part of our paper illustrates case studies on two application domains: smart farming, and tourism & hospitality.
We plan to explore the feasibility of developing a blockchain-based infrastructure for precision agriculture in future


## Study subjects

### 15 Recently, many tourism companies
- TOURISM & HOSPITALITY In this case study, we highlight the current issues in the tourism industry and show how they can be resolved by implementing the blockchain mechanism. ==We present a case study that follows the process model shown in Fig. 15 Recently, many tourism companies like Expedia Group, BCD Travel, Uber, Ola, and AirBnb have replaced their conventional business models by C2C models to achieve transparency and security in transactions==. There is a huge demand for innovative platforms in the tourism industry to integrate technology, money, and knowledge

## Findings
- It has been observed that the consumers can reduce the energy bill by 38%

##  Builds on previous research
- In this paper, the working of the token and their types such as token, initial coin offering, and its currency are discussed. ==Gatteschi et al [^37] explained whether the adoption of the blockchain in different industries can improve their productivity==

## Contributions
- In this paper, we provide insights to the readers about the importance of the blockchain technology for various smart applications, where security remains paramount. This survey is divided into five parts. The first part discusses the traditional security systems, background, and history of the blockchains. The second part describes the basic architecture of the blockchain technology, including the verification of each transaction in the distributed network which makes a permanent, verified and unalterable nature of ledger for the information or data. Moreover, the blockchain reference architecture which consists of three different networks such as public network, cloud network and enterprise network. The Third part of our paper focuses on the real-time deployment of the blockchain for various applications such as smart healthcare, smart farming, supply-chain & logistics, business, tourism& hospitality, energy, agriculture, digital content distribution, smart city, IoT, and manufacturing which are also considered in the survey part of the paper. The fourth part emphasizes on the open issues and challenges in Industry 4.0-based smart applications and suggests some blockchain based solutions for those applications. Finally, to demonstrate the suitability of the blockchain technology for smart applications, the last part of our paper illustrates case studies on two application domains: smart farming, and tourism & hospitality. We plan to explore the feasibility of developing a blockchain-based infrastructure for precision agriculture in future.

## Future work
- In Section 6, two case studies on smart farming and tourism and hospitality are presented to give more insights to the readers. In Section 7, the paper is concluded with future research directions.


## References
[^1]: G. Gambhire, T. Gujar, and S. Pathak, ‘‘Business potential and impact of industry 4.0 in manufacturing organizations,’’ in Proc. 4th Int. Conf. Comput. Commun. Control Autom. (ICCUBEA), Aug. 2018, pp. 1–6. [[Gambhire_et+al_businessPotentialImpactIndustry40_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gambhire%2C%20G.%20Gujar%2C%20T.%20Pathak%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Business%20potential%20and%20impact%20of%20industry%204.0%20in%20manufacturing%20organizations%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gambhire%2C%20G.%20Gujar%2C%20T.%20Pathak%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Business%20potential%20and%20impact%20of%20industry%204.0%20in%20manufacturing%20organizations%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08) 

[^2]: International Tourist Arrivals Reach 1.4 Billion Two Years Ahead of Forecasts. Accessed: Apr. 7, 2019. [Online]. Available: https://www.idtheftcenter.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/Multi-Year-Chart.pdf [[International_InternationalTouristArrivalsReach14_2019]] [OA](https://www.idtheftcenter.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/Multi-Year-Chart.pdf)  

[^3]: International Tourist Arrivals Reach 1.4 Billion Two Years Ahead of Forecasts. Accessed: Apr. 7, 2019. [Online]. Available: https://www.forbes.com/sites/louiscolumbus/2018/06/06/10-charts-that-willchallenge-your-perspective-of-iots-growth/#2faabe643ecc [[International_InternationalTouristArrivalsReach14_2019]] [OA](https://www.forbes.com/sites/louiscolumbus/2018/06/06/10-charts-that-willchallenge-your-perspective-of-iots-growth/#2faabe643ecc)  

[^4]: P. Fraga-Lamas and T. M. Fernandez-Carames, ‘‘A review on blockchain technologies for an advanced and cyber-resilient automotive industry,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 17578–17598, 2019. [[Fraga-Lamas_aReviewBlockchainTechnologiesAdvanced_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fraga-Lamas%2C%20P.%20Fernandez-Carames%2C%20T.M.%20%E2%80%98A%20review%20on%20blockchain%20technologies%20for%20an%20advanced%20and%20cyber-resilient%20automotive%20industry%2C%E2%80%99%202019&author=Fraga-Lamas&title=%E2%80%98A%20review%20on%20blockchain%20technologies%20for%20an%20advanced%20and%20cyber-resilient%20automotive%20industry%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fraga-Lamas%2C%20P.%20Fernandez-Carames%2C%20T.M.%20%E2%80%98A%20review%20on%20blockchain%20technologies%20for%20an%20advanced%20and%20cyber-resilient%20automotive%20industry%2C%E2%80%99%202019) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fraga-Lamas%2C%20P.%20Fernandez-Carames%2C%20T.M.%20%E2%80%98A%20review%20on%20blockchain%20technologies%20for%20an%20advanced%20and%20cyber-resilient%20automotive%20industry%2C%E2%80%99%202019)

[^5]: International Tourist Arrivals Reach 1.4 Billion Two Years Ahead of Forecasts. Accessed: Apr. 7, 2019. [Online]. Available: https://www.comparitech.com/identity-theft-protection/identity-theft-statistics/ [[International_InternationalTouristArrivalsReach14_2019]] [OA](https://www.comparitech.com/identity-theft-protection/identity-theft-statistics/)  

[^6]: International Tourist Arrivals Reach 1.4 Billion Two Years Ahead of Forecasts. Accessed: Apr. 7, 2019. [Online]. Available: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180808005033/en/Juniper-ResearchCybersecurity-Breaches-Result-146-Billion [[International_InternationalTouristArrivalsReach14_2019]] [OA](https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180808005033/en/Juniper-ResearchCybersecurity-Breaches-Result-146-Billion)  

[^7]: I. Makhdoom, M. Abolhasan, H. Abbas, and W. Ni, ‘‘Blockchain’s adoption in IoT: The challenges, and a way forward,’’ J. Netw. Comput. Appl., vol. 125, pp. 251–279, Jan. 2019. [[Makhdoom_et+al_blockchainAdoptionIotChallengesForward_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Makhdoom%2C%20I.%20Abolhasan%2C%20M.%20Abbas%2C%20H.%20Ni%2C%20W.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%E2%80%99s%20adoption%20in%20IoT%3A%20The%20challenges%2C%20and%20a%20way%20forward%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01&author=Makhdoom&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%E2%80%99s%20adoption%20in%20IoT%3A%20The%20challenges%2C%20and%20a%20way%20forward%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Makhdoom%2C%20I.%20Abolhasan%2C%20M.%20Abbas%2C%20H.%20Ni%2C%20W.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%E2%80%99s%20adoption%20in%20IoT%3A%20The%20challenges%2C%20and%20a%20way%20forward%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Makhdoom%2C%20I.%20Abolhasan%2C%20M.%20Abbas%2C%20H.%20Ni%2C%20W.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%E2%80%99s%20adoption%20in%20IoT%3A%20The%20challenges%2C%20and%20a%20way%20forward%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01)

[^8]: U. Bodkhe, J. Chaklasiya, P. Shah, S. Tanwar, and M. Vora, ‘‘Markov model for password attack prevention,’’ in Proc. 1st Int. Conf. Comput., Commun., Cyber-Secur. (IC4S), P. K. Singh et al., Eds. Chandigarh, India: Springer, 2020, pp. 831–843. [[Bodkhe_et+al_markovModelPasswordAttackPrevention_IC4S]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bodkhe%2C%20U.%20Chaklasiya%2C%20J.%20Shah%2C%20P.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Markov%20model%20for%20password%20attack%20prevention%2C%E2%80%99%20IC4S) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bodkhe%2C%20U.%20Chaklasiya%2C%20J.%20Shah%2C%20P.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Markov%20model%20for%20password%20attack%20prevention%2C%E2%80%99%20IC4S) 

[^9]: S. Nakamoto, ‘‘Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,’’ Tech. Bitcoin.Org., 2008. [[Nakamoto_bitcoinPeerpeerElectronicCashSystem_2008]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nakamoto%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Bitcoin%3A%20A%20peer-to-peer%20electronic%20cash%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202008&author=Nakamoto&title=%E2%80%98Bitcoin%3A%20A%20peer-to-peer%20electronic%20cash%20system%2C%E2%80%99&year=2008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nakamoto%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Bitcoin%3A%20A%20peer-to-peer%20electronic%20cash%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202008) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nakamoto%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Bitcoin%3A%20A%20peer-to-peer%20electronic%20cash%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202008)

[^10]: P. Noizat, ‘‘Blockchain electronic vote,’’ in Handbook of Digital Currency, D. L. K. Chuen et al., Eds. San Diego, CA, USA: Academic, 2015, ch. 22, pp. 453–461. [[Noizat_blockchainElectronicVote_2015]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Noizat%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20electronic%20vote%2C%E2%80%99%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Noizat%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20electronic%20vote%2C%E2%80%99%202015) 

[^11]: Q. Feng, D. He, S. Zeadally, M. K. Khan, and N. Kumar, ‘‘A survey on privacy protection in blockchain system,’’ J. Netw. Comput. Appl., vol. 126, pp. 45–58, Jan. 2019. [[Feng_et+al_aSurveyPrivacyProtectionBlockchain_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Feng%2C%20Q.%20He%2C%20D.%20Zeadally%2C%20S.%20Khan%2C%20M.K.%20%E2%80%98A%20survey%20on%20privacy%20protection%20in%20blockchain%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01&author=Feng&title=%E2%80%98A%20survey%20on%20privacy%20protection%20in%20blockchain%20system%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Feng%2C%20Q.%20He%2C%20D.%20Zeadally%2C%20S.%20Khan%2C%20M.K.%20%E2%80%98A%20survey%20on%20privacy%20protection%20in%20blockchain%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Feng%2C%20Q.%20He%2C%20D.%20Zeadally%2C%20S.%20Khan%2C%20M.K.%20%E2%80%98A%20survey%20on%20privacy%20protection%20in%20blockchain%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01)

[^12]: G. Zhao, S. Liu, C. Lopez, H. Lu, S. Elgueta, H. Chen, and B. M. Boshkoska, ‘‘Blockchain technology in agri-food value chain management: A synthesis of applications, challenges and future research directions,’’ Comput. Ind., vol. 109, pp. 83–99, Aug. 2019. [[Zhao_et+al_blockchainTechnologyAgrifoodValueChain_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhao%2C%20G.%20Liu%2C%20S.%20Lopez%2C%20C.%20Lu%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20in%20agri-food%20value%20chain%20management%3A%20A%20synthesis%20of%20applications%2C%20challenges%20and%20future%20research%20directions%2C%E2%80%99%202019-08&author=Zhao&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20in%20agri-food%20value%20chain%20management%3A%20A%20synthesis%20of%20applications%2C%20challenges%20and%20future%20research%20directions%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhao%2C%20G.%20Liu%2C%20S.%20Lopez%2C%20C.%20Lu%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20in%20agri-food%20value%20chain%20management%3A%20A%20synthesis%20of%20applications%2C%20challenges%20and%20future%20research%20directions%2C%E2%80%99%202019-08) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhao%2C%20G.%20Liu%2C%20S.%20Lopez%2C%20C.%20Lu%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20in%20agri-food%20value%20chain%20management%3A%20A%20synthesis%20of%20applications%2C%20challenges%20and%20future%20research%20directions%2C%E2%80%99%202019-08)

[^13]: V. J. Morkunas, J. Paschen, and E. Boon, ‘‘How blockchain technologies impact your business model,’’ Bus. Horizons, vol. 62, no. 3, pp. 295–306, May 2019. [[Morkunas_et+al_howBlockchainTechnologiesImpactYour_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Morkunas%2C%20V.J.%20Paschen%2C%20J.%20Boon%2C%20E.%20%E2%80%98How%20blockchain%20technologies%20impact%20your%20business%20model%2C%E2%80%99%202019-05&author=Morkunas&title=%E2%80%98How%20blockchain%20technologies%20impact%20your%20business%20model%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Morkunas%2C%20V.J.%20Paschen%2C%20J.%20Boon%2C%20E.%20%E2%80%98How%20blockchain%20technologies%20impact%20your%20business%20model%2C%E2%80%99%202019-05) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Morkunas%2C%20V.J.%20Paschen%2C%20J.%20Boon%2C%20E.%20%E2%80%98How%20blockchain%20technologies%20impact%20your%20business%20model%2C%E2%80%99%202019-05)

[^14]: Y. Lu, ‘‘The blockchain: State-of-the-art and research challenges,’’ J. Ind. Inf. Integr., vol. 15, pp. 80–90, Sep. 2019. [[Lu_theBlockchainStateResearchChallenges_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lu%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98The%20blockchain%3A%20State-of-the-art%20and%20research%20challenges%2C%E2%80%99%202019-09&author=Lu&title=%E2%80%98The%20blockchain%3A%20State-of-the-art%20and%20research%20challenges%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lu%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98The%20blockchain%3A%20State-of-the-art%20and%20research%20challenges%2C%E2%80%99%202019-09) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lu%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98The%20blockchain%3A%20State-of-the-art%20and%20research%20challenges%2C%E2%80%99%202019-09)

[^15]: H. F. Atlam and G. B. Wills, ‘‘Technical aspects of blockchain and IoT,’’ Adv. Comput., vol. 115, pp. 1–39, Mar. 2019, doi:10.1016/bs.adcom.2018.10.006. [[Atlam_technicalAspectsBlockchainIot_2019]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/bs.adcom.2018.10.006)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/bs.adcom.2018.10.006)

[^16]: X. Wang, X. Zha, W. Ni, R. P. Liu, Y. J. Guo, X. Niu, and K. Zheng, ‘‘Survey on blockchain for Internet of Things,’’ Comput. Commun., vol. 136, pp. 10–29, Feb. 2019. [[Wang_et+al_surveyBlockchainInternetThings_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20X.%20Zha%2C%20X.%20Ni%2C%20W.%20Liu%2C%20R.P.%20%E2%80%98Survey%20on%20blockchain%20for%20Internet%20of%20Things%2C%E2%80%99%202019-02&author=Wang&title=%E2%80%98Survey%20on%20blockchain%20for%20Internet%20of%20Things%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20X.%20Zha%2C%20X.%20Ni%2C%20W.%20Liu%2C%20R.P.%20%E2%80%98Survey%20on%20blockchain%20for%20Internet%20of%20Things%2C%E2%80%99%202019-02) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20X.%20Zha%2C%20X.%20Ni%2C%20W.%20Liu%2C%20R.P.%20%E2%80%98Survey%20on%20blockchain%20for%20Internet%20of%20Things%2C%E2%80%99%202019-02)

[^17]: M. Muzammal, Q. Qu, and B. Nasrulin, ‘‘Renovating blockchain with distributed databases: An open source system,’’ Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 90, pp. 105–117, Jan. 2019. [[Muzammal_et+al_renovatingBlockchainWithDistributedDatabases_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Muzammal%2C%20M.%20Qu%2C%20Q.%20Nasrulin%2C%20B.%20%E2%80%98Renovating%20blockchain%20with%20distributed%20databases%3A%20An%20open%20source%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01&author=Muzammal&title=%E2%80%98Renovating%20blockchain%20with%20distributed%20databases%3A%20An%20open%20source%20system%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Muzammal%2C%20M.%20Qu%2C%20Q.%20Nasrulin%2C%20B.%20%E2%80%98Renovating%20blockchain%20with%20distributed%20databases%3A%20An%20open%20source%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Muzammal%2C%20M.%20Qu%2C%20Q.%20Nasrulin%2C%20B.%20%E2%80%98Renovating%20blockchain%20with%20distributed%20databases%3A%20An%20open%20source%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01)

[^18]: D. Mingxiao, M. Xiaofeng, Z. Zhe, W. Xiangwei, and C. Qijun, ‘‘A review on consensus algorithm of blockchain,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Syst., Man, Cybern. (SMC), Oct. 2017, pp. 2567–2572. [[Mingxiao_et+al_aReviewConsensusAlgorithmBlockchain_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mingxiao%2C%20D.%20Xiaofeng%2C%20M.%20Zhe%2C%20Z.%20Xiangwei%2C%20W.%20%E2%80%98A%20review%20on%20consensus%20algorithm%20of%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202017-10) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mingxiao%2C%20D.%20Xiaofeng%2C%20M.%20Zhe%2C%20Z.%20Xiangwei%2C%20W.%20%E2%80%98A%20review%20on%20consensus%20algorithm%20of%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202017-10) 

[^19]: U. Bodkhe, D. Mehta, S. Tanwar, P. Bhattacharya, P. K. Singh, and W.-C. Hong, ‘‘A survey on decentralized consensus mechanisms for cyber physical systems,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 54371–54401, 2020. [[Bodkhe_et+al_aSurveyDecentralizedConsensusMechanisms_2020]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bodkhe%2C%20U.%20Mehta%2C%20D.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Bhattacharya%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98A%20survey%20on%20decentralized%20consensus%20mechanisms%20for%20cyber%20physical%20systems%2C%E2%80%99%202020&author=Bodkhe&title=%E2%80%98A%20survey%20on%20decentralized%20consensus%20mechanisms%20for%20cyber%20physical%20systems%2C%E2%80%99&year=2020) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bodkhe%2C%20U.%20Mehta%2C%20D.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Bhattacharya%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98A%20survey%20on%20decentralized%20consensus%20mechanisms%20for%20cyber%20physical%20systems%2C%E2%80%99%202020) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bodkhe%2C%20U.%20Mehta%2C%20D.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Bhattacharya%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98A%20survey%20on%20decentralized%20consensus%20mechanisms%20for%20cyber%20physical%20systems%2C%E2%80%99%202020)

[^20]: S. Hirsh, S. Alman, V. Lemieux, and E. T. Meyer, ‘‘Blockchain: One emerging technology—So many applications,’’ Proc. Assoc. Inf. Sci. Technol., vol. 55, no. 1, pp. 691–693, 2018. [[Hirsh_et+al_blockchainEmergingTechnologysoManyApplications_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hirsh%2C%20S.%20Alman%2C%20S.%20Lemieux%2C%20V.%20Meyer%2C%20E.T.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20One%20emerging%20technology%E2%80%94So%20many%20applications%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Hirsh&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20One%20emerging%20technology%E2%80%94So%20many%20applications%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hirsh%2C%20S.%20Alman%2C%20S.%20Lemieux%2C%20V.%20Meyer%2C%20E.T.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20One%20emerging%20technology%E2%80%94So%20many%20applications%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hirsh%2C%20S.%20Alman%2C%20S.%20Lemieux%2C%20V.%20Meyer%2C%20E.T.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20One%20emerging%20technology%E2%80%94So%20many%20applications%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^21]: M. H. Onik, M. H. Miraz, and C.-S. Kim, ‘‘A recruitment and human resource management technique using blockchain technology for industry 4.0,’’ in Proc. Smart Cities Symp., Apr. 2018, pp. 1–6. [[Onik_et+al_aRecruitmentHumanResourceManagement_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Onik%2C%20M.H.%20Miraz%2C%20M.H.%20Kim%2C%20C.-S.%20%E2%80%98A%20recruitment%20and%20human%20resource%20management%20technique%20using%20blockchain%20technology%20for%20industry%204.0%2C%E2%80%99%202018-04) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Onik%2C%20M.H.%20Miraz%2C%20M.H.%20Kim%2C%20C.-S.%20%E2%80%98A%20recruitment%20and%20human%20resource%20management%20technique%20using%20blockchain%20technology%20for%20industry%204.0%2C%E2%80%99%202018-04) 

[^22]: M. Mettler, ‘‘Blockchain technology in healthcare: The revolution starts here,’’ in Proc. IEEE 18th Int. Conf. e-Health Netw., Appl. Services (Healthcom), Sep. 2016, pp. 1–3. [[Mettler_blockchainTechnologyHealthcareRevolutionStarts_Appl]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mettler%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20in%20healthcare%3A%20The%20revolution%20starts%20here%2C%E2%80%99%20Appl) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mettler%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20in%20healthcare%3A%20The%20revolution%20starts%20here%2C%E2%80%99%20Appl) 

[^23]: M. W. L. Moreira, J. J. P. C. Rodrigues, V. Korotaev, J. Al-Muhtadi, and N. Kumar, ‘‘A comprehensive review on smart decision support systems for health care,’’ IEEE Syst. J., vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 3536–3545, Sep. 2019. [[Moreira_et+al_aComprehensiveReviewSmartDecision_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moreira%2C%20M.W.L.%20Rodrigues%2C%20J.J.P.C.%20Korotaev%2C%20V.%20Al-Muhtadi%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98A%20comprehensive%20review%20on%20smart%20decision%20support%20systems%20for%20health%20care%2C%E2%80%99%202019-09&author=Moreira&title=%E2%80%98A%20comprehensive%20review%20on%20smart%20decision%20support%20systems%20for%20health%20care%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moreira%2C%20M.W.L.%20Rodrigues%2C%20J.J.P.C.%20Korotaev%2C%20V.%20Al-Muhtadi%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98A%20comprehensive%20review%20on%20smart%20decision%20support%20systems%20for%20health%20care%2C%E2%80%99%202019-09) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moreira%2C%20M.W.L.%20Rodrigues%2C%20J.J.P.C.%20Korotaev%2C%20V.%20Al-Muhtadi%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98A%20comprehensive%20review%20on%20smart%20decision%20support%20systems%20for%20health%20care%2C%E2%80%99%202019-09)

[^24]: M. M. H. Onik, S. Aich, J. Yang, C.-S. Kim, and H.-C. Kim, ‘‘Blockchain in healthcare: Challenges and solutions,’’ in Big Data Analytics for Intelligent Healthcare Management, N. Dey, H. Das, B. Naik, and H. S. Behera, Eds. New York, NY, USA: Academic, 2019, pp. 197–226. [[Onik_et+al_blockchainHealthcareChallengesSolutions_2019]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Onik%2C%20M.M.H.%20Aich%2C%20S.%20Yang%2C%20J.%20Kim%2C%20C.-S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20in%20healthcare%3A%20Challenges%20and%20solutions%2C%E2%80%99%202019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Onik%2C%20M.M.H.%20Aich%2C%20S.%20Yang%2C%20J.%20Kim%2C%20C.-S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20in%20healthcare%3A%20Challenges%20and%20solutions%2C%E2%80%99%202019) 

[^25]: J. Yli-Huumo, D. Ko, S. Choi, S. Park, and K. Smolander, ‘‘Where is current research on blockchain technology?—A systematic review,’’ PLoS ONE, vol. 11, no. 10, 2016, Art. no. e0163477. [[Yli-Huumo_et+al_whereCurrentResearchBlockchainTechnologya_2016]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yli-Huumo%2C%20J.%20Ko%2C%20D.%20Choi%2C%20S.%20Park%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Where%20is%20current%20research%20on%20blockchain%20technology%3F%E2%80%94A%20systematic%20review%2C%E2%80%99%202016&author=Yli-Huumo&title=%E2%80%98Where%20is%20current%20research%20on%20blockchain%20technology%3F%E2%80%94A%20systematic%20review%2C%E2%80%99&year=2016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yli-Huumo%2C%20J.%20Ko%2C%20D.%20Choi%2C%20S.%20Park%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Where%20is%20current%20research%20on%20blockchain%20technology%3F%E2%80%94A%20systematic%20review%2C%E2%80%99%202016) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yli-Huumo%2C%20J.%20Ko%2C%20D.%20Choi%2C%20S.%20Park%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Where%20is%20current%20research%20on%20blockchain%20technology%3F%E2%80%94A%20systematic%20review%2C%E2%80%99%202016)

[^26]: T. Ahram, A. Sargolzaei, S. Sargolzaei, J. Daniels, and B. Amaba, ‘‘Blockchain technology innovations,’’ in Proc. IEEE Technol. Eng. Manage. Conf. (TEMSCON), Jun. 2017, pp. 137–141. [[Ahram_et+al_blockchainTechnologyInnovations_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ahram%2C%20T.%20Sargolzaei%2C%20A.%20Sargolzaei%2C%20S.%20Daniels%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20innovations%2C%E2%80%99%202017&author=Ahram&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20innovations%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ahram%2C%20T.%20Sargolzaei%2C%20A.%20Sargolzaei%2C%20S.%20Daniels%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20innovations%2C%E2%80%99%202017) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ahram%2C%20T.%20Sargolzaei%2C%20A.%20Sargolzaei%2C%20S.%20Daniels%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20innovations%2C%E2%80%99%202017)

[^27]: S. Kim and J. Kim, ‘‘POSTER: Mining with proof-of-probability in blockchain,’’ in Proc. Asia Conf. Comput. Commun. Secur. (ASIACCS), New York, NY, USA, 2018, pp. 841–843. [[Kim_posterMiningWithProofprobabilityBlockchain_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kim%2C%20S.%20Kim%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98POSTER%3A%20Mining%20with%20proof-of-probability%20in%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kim%2C%20S.%20Kim%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98POSTER%3A%20Mining%20with%20proof-of-probability%20in%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018) 

[^28]: M. Weiss, A. Botha, M. Herselman, and G. Loots, ‘‘Blockchain as an enabler for public mHealth solutions in South Africa,’’ in Proc. IST-Afr. Week Conf. (IST-Africa), May 2017, pp. 1–8. [[Weiss_et+al_blockchainEnablerPublicMhealthSolutions_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Weiss%2C%20M.%20Botha%2C%20A.%20Herselman%2C%20M.%20Loots%2C%20G.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20as%20an%20enabler%20for%20public%20mHealth%20solutions%20in%20South%20Africa%2C%E2%80%99%202017-05) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Weiss%2C%20M.%20Botha%2C%20A.%20Herselman%2C%20M.%20Loots%2C%20G.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20as%20an%20enabler%20for%20public%20mHealth%20solutions%20in%20South%20Africa%2C%E2%80%99%202017-05) 

[^29]: T. Ahram, A. Sargolzaei, S. Sargolzaei, J. Daniels, and B. Amaba, ‘‘Blockchain technology innovations,’’ in Proc. IEEE Technol. Eng. Manage. Conf. (TEMSCON), Jun. 2017, pp. 137–141. [[Ahram_et+al_blockchainTechnologyInnovations_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ahram%2C%20T.%20Sargolzaei%2C%20A.%20Sargolzaei%2C%20S.%20Daniels%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20innovations%2C%E2%80%99%202017&author=Ahram&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20innovations%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ahram%2C%20T.%20Sargolzaei%2C%20A.%20Sargolzaei%2C%20S.%20Daniels%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20innovations%2C%E2%80%99%202017) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ahram%2C%20T.%20Sargolzaei%2C%20A.%20Sargolzaei%2C%20S.%20Daniels%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20innovations%2C%E2%80%99%202017)

[^30]: P. Zhang, M. A. Walker, J. White, D. C. Schmidt, and G. Lenz, ‘‘Metrics for assessing blockchain-based healthcare decentralized apps,’’ in Proc. IEEE 19th Int. Conf. e-Health Netw., Appl. Services (Healthcom), Oct. 2017, pp. 1–4. [[Zhang_et+al_metricsAssessingBlockchainbasedHealthcareDecentralized_Appl]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhang%2C%20P.%20Walker%2C%20M.A.%20White%2C%20J.%20Schmidt%2C%20D.C.%20%E2%80%98Metrics%20for%20assessing%20blockchain-based%20healthcare%20decentralized%20apps%2C%E2%80%99%20Appl) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhang%2C%20P.%20Walker%2C%20M.A.%20White%2C%20J.%20Schmidt%2C%20D.C.%20%E2%80%98Metrics%20for%20assessing%20blockchain-based%20healthcare%20decentralized%20apps%2C%E2%80%99%20Appl) 

[^31]: W. Liu, S. S. Zhu, T. Mundie, and U. Krieger, ‘‘Advanced block-chain architecture for e-health systems,’’ in Proc. IEEE 19th Int. Conf. e-Health Netw., Appl. Services (Healthcom), Oct. 2017, pp. 1–6. [[Liu_et+al_advancedBlockchainArchitecturehealthSystems_Appl]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liu%2C%20W.%20Zhu%2C%20S.S.%20Mundie%2C%20T.%20Krieger%2C%20U.%20%E2%80%98Advanced%20block-chain%20architecture%20for%20e-health%20systems%2C%E2%80%99%20Appl) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liu%2C%20W.%20Zhu%2C%20S.S.%20Mundie%2C%20T.%20Krieger%2C%20U.%20%E2%80%98Advanced%20block-chain%20architecture%20for%20e-health%20systems%2C%E2%80%99%20Appl) 

[^32]: Y. Yu, R. Liang, and J. Xu, ‘‘A scalable and extensible blockchain architecture,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Data Mining Workshops (ICDMW), Nov. 2018, pp. 161–163. [[Yu_et+al_aScalableExtensibleBlockchainArchitecture_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yu%2C%20Y.%20Liang%2C%20R.%20Xu%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98A%20scalable%20and%20extensible%20blockchain%20architecture%2C%E2%80%99%202018-11) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yu%2C%20Y.%20Liang%2C%20R.%20Xu%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98A%20scalable%20and%20extensible%20blockchain%20architecture%2C%E2%80%99%202018-11) 

[^33]: B. Duan, Y. Zhong, and D. Liu, ‘‘Education application of blockchain technology: Learning outcome and meta-diploma,’’ in Proc. IEEE 23rd Int. Conf. Parallel Distrib. Syst. (ICPADS), Dec. 2017, spp. 814–817. [[Duan_et+al_educationApplicationBlockchainTechnologyLearning_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Duan%2C%20B.%20Zhong%2C%20Y.%20Liu%2C%20D.%20%E2%80%98Education%20application%20of%20blockchain%20technology%3A%20Learning%20outcome%20and%20meta-diploma%2C%E2%80%99%202017-12) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Duan%2C%20B.%20Zhong%2C%20Y.%20Liu%2C%20D.%20%E2%80%98Education%20application%20of%20blockchain%20technology%3A%20Learning%20outcome%20and%20meta-diploma%2C%E2%80%99%202017-12) 

[^34]: I. Radanović and R. Likić, ‘‘Opportunities for use of blockchain technology in medicine,’’ Appl. Health Econ. Health Policy, vol. 16, no. 5, pp. 583–590, Oct. 2018. [[Radanović_opportunitiesBlockchainTechnologyMedicine_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Radanovi%C4%87%2C%20I.%20Liki%C4%87%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98Opportunities%20for%20use%20of%20blockchain%20technology%20in%20medicine%2C%E2%80%99%202018-10&author=Radanovi%C4%87&title=%E2%80%98Opportunities%20for%20use%20of%20blockchain%20technology%20in%20medicine%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Radanovi%C4%87%2C%20I.%20Liki%C4%87%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98Opportunities%20for%20use%20of%20blockchain%20technology%20in%20medicine%2C%E2%80%99%202018-10) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Radanovi%C4%87%2C%20I.%20Liki%C4%87%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98Opportunities%20for%20use%20of%20blockchain%20technology%20in%20medicine%2C%E2%80%99%202018-10)

[^35]: D. Vujicic, D. Jagodic, and S. Randic, ‘‘Blockchain technology, bitcoin, and ethereum: A brief overview,’’ in Proc. 17th Int. Symp. InfotehJahorina (INFOTEH), Mar. 2018, pp. 1–6. [[Vujicic_et+al_blockchainTechnologyBitcoinEthereumBrief_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vujicic%2C%20D.%20Jagodic%2C%20D.%20Randic%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%2C%20bitcoin%2C%20and%20ethereum%3A%20A%20brief%20overview%2C%E2%80%99%202018-03) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vujicic%2C%20D.%20Jagodic%2C%20D.%20Randic%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%2C%20bitcoin%2C%20and%20ethereum%3A%20A%20brief%20overview%2C%E2%80%99%202018-03) 

[^36]: Y. Chen, ‘‘Blockchain tokens and the potential democratization of entrepreneurship and innovation,’’ Bus. Horizons, vol. 61, no. 4, pp. 567–575, Jul. 2018. [[Chen_blockchainTokensPotentialDemocratizationEntrepreneurship_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chen%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20tokens%20and%20the%20potential%20democratization%20of%20entrepreneurship%20and%20innovation%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07&author=Chen&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20tokens%20and%20the%20potential%20democratization%20of%20entrepreneurship%20and%20innovation%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chen%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20tokens%20and%20the%20potential%20democratization%20of%20entrepreneurship%20and%20innovation%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chen%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20tokens%20and%20the%20potential%20democratization%20of%20entrepreneurship%20and%20innovation%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07)

[^37]: V. Gatteschi, F. Lamberti, C. Demartini, C. Pranteda, and V. Santamaría, ‘‘To blockchain or not to blockchain: That is the question,’’ IT Prof., vol. 20, no. 2, pp. 62–74, Mar./Apr. 2018. [[Gatteschi_et+al_toBlockchainBlockchainThatQuestion_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gatteschi%2C%20V.%20Lamberti%2C%20F.%20Demartini%2C%20C.%20Pranteda%2C%20C.%20%E2%80%98To%20blockchain%20or%20not%20to%20blockchain%3A%20That%20is%20the%20question%2C%E2%80%99%20Mar./Apr.%202018&author=Gatteschi&title=%E2%80%98To%20blockchain%20or%20not%20to%20blockchain%3A%20That%20is%20the%20question%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gatteschi%2C%20V.%20Lamberti%2C%20F.%20Demartini%2C%20C.%20Pranteda%2C%20C.%20%E2%80%98To%20blockchain%20or%20not%20to%20blockchain%3A%20That%20is%20the%20question%2C%E2%80%99%20Mar./Apr.%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gatteschi%2C%20V.%20Lamberti%2C%20F.%20Demartini%2C%20C.%20Pranteda%2C%20C.%20%E2%80%98To%20blockchain%20or%20not%20to%20blockchain%3A%20That%20is%20the%20question%2C%E2%80%99%20Mar./Apr.%202018)

[^38]: N. M. Kumar and P. K. Mallick, ‘‘Blockchain technology for security issues and challenges in IoT,’’ Procedia Comput. Sci., vol. 132, pp. 1815–1823, 2018, doi:10.1016/j.procs.2018.05.140. [[Kumar_blockchainTechnologySecurityIssuesChallenges_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2018.05.140)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.procs.2018.05.140)

[^39]: J. Huang, L. Kong, G. Chen, M.-Y. Wu, X. Liu, and P. Zeng, ‘‘Towards secure industrial IoT: Blockchain system with credit-based consensus mechanism,’’ IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 3680–3689, Jun. 2019. [[Huang_et+al_towardsSecureIndustrialIotBlockchain_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Huang%2C%20J.%20Kong%2C%20L.%20Chen%2C%20G.%20Wu%2C%20M.-Y.%20%E2%80%98Towards%20secure%20industrial%20IoT%3A%20Blockchain%20system%20with%20credit-based%20consensus%20mechanism%2C%E2%80%99%202019-06&author=Huang&title=%E2%80%98Towards%20secure%20industrial%20IoT%3A%20Blockchain%20system%20with%20credit-based%20consensus%20mechanism%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Huang%2C%20J.%20Kong%2C%20L.%20Chen%2C%20G.%20Wu%2C%20M.-Y.%20%E2%80%98Towards%20secure%20industrial%20IoT%3A%20Blockchain%20system%20with%20credit-based%20consensus%20mechanism%2C%E2%80%99%202019-06) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Huang%2C%20J.%20Kong%2C%20L.%20Chen%2C%20G.%20Wu%2C%20M.-Y.%20%E2%80%98Towards%20secure%20industrial%20IoT%3A%20Blockchain%20system%20with%20credit-based%20consensus%20mechanism%2C%E2%80%99%202019-06)

[^40]: Y. Qian, Y. Jiang, J. Chen, Y. Zhang, J. Song, M. Zhou, and M. Pustisek, ‘‘Towards decentralized IoT security enhancement: A blockchain approach,’’ Comput. Electr. Eng., vol. 72, pp. 266–273, Nov. 2018. [[Qian_et+al_towardsDecentralizedIotSecurityEnhancement_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Qian%2C%20Y.%20Jiang%2C%20Y.%20Chen%2C%20J.%20Zhang%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98Towards%20decentralized%20IoT%20security%20enhancement%3A%20A%20blockchain%20approach%2C%E2%80%99%202018-11&author=Qian&title=%E2%80%98Towards%20decentralized%20IoT%20security%20enhancement%3A%20A%20blockchain%20approach%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Qian%2C%20Y.%20Jiang%2C%20Y.%20Chen%2C%20J.%20Zhang%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98Towards%20decentralized%20IoT%20security%20enhancement%3A%20A%20blockchain%20approach%2C%E2%80%99%202018-11) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Qian%2C%20Y.%20Jiang%2C%20Y.%20Chen%2C%20J.%20Zhang%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98Towards%20decentralized%20IoT%20security%20enhancement%3A%20A%20blockchain%20approach%2C%E2%80%99%202018-11)

[^41]: L. Stoykov, K. Zhang, and H.-A. Jacobsen, ‘‘VIBES: Fast blockchain simulations for large-scale peer-to-peer networks: Demo,’’ in Proc. 18th ACM/IFIP/USENIX Middleware Conf., Posters Demos, New York, NY, USA, Dec. 2017, pp. 19–20. [[Stoykov_et+al_vibesFastBlockchainSimulationsLargescale_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Stoykov%2C%20L.%20Zhang%2C%20K.%20Jacobsen%2C%20H.-A.%20%E2%80%98VIBES%3A%20Fast%20blockchain%20simulations%20for%20large-scale%20peer-to-peer%20networks%3A%20Demo%2C%E2%80%99%202017-12) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Stoykov%2C%20L.%20Zhang%2C%20K.%20Jacobsen%2C%20H.-A.%20%E2%80%98VIBES%3A%20Fast%20blockchain%20simulations%20for%20large-scale%20peer-to-peer%20networks%3A%20Demo%2C%E2%80%99%202017-12) 

[^42]: I. Konstantinidis, G. Siaminos, C. Timplalexis, P. Zervas, V. Peristeras, and S. Decker, ‘‘Blockchain for business applications: A systematic literature review,’’ in Business Information Systems. BIS (Lecture Notes in Business Information Processing), vol. 320, W. Abramowicz and A. Paschke, Eds. Cham, Switzerland: Springer, 2018. [[Konstantinidis_et+al_blockchainBusinessApplicationsSystematicLiterature_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Konstantinidis%2C%20I.%20Siaminos%2C%20G.%20Timplalexis%2C%20C.%20Zervas%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20for%20business%20applications%3A%20A%20systematic%20literature%20review%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Konstantinidis%2C%20I.%20Siaminos%2C%20G.%20Timplalexis%2C%20C.%20Zervas%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20for%20business%20applications%3A%20A%20systematic%20literature%20review%2C%E2%80%99%202018) 

[^43]: N. Mohamed and J. Al-Jaroodi, ‘‘Applying blockchain in industry 4.0 applications,’’ in Proc. IEEE 9th Annu. Comput. Commun. Workshop Conf. (CCWC), Jan. 2019, pp. 0852–0858. [[Mohamed_applyingBlockchainIndustry40Applications_2019]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mohamed%2C%20N.%20Al-Jaroodi%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Applying%20blockchain%20in%20industry%204.0%20applications%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mohamed%2C%20N.%20Al-Jaroodi%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Applying%20blockchain%20in%20industry%204.0%20applications%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01) 

[^44]: T. M. Fernández-Caramés and P. Fraga-Lamas, ‘‘A review on the application of blockchain to the next generation of cybersecure industry 4.0 smart factories,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 45201–45218, 2019. [[Fernández-Caramés_aReviewApplicationBlockchainNext_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fern%C3%A1ndez-Caram%C3%A9s%2C%20T.M.%20Fraga-Lamas%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98A%20review%20on%20the%20application%20of%20blockchain%20to%20the%20next%20generation%20of%20cybersecure%20industry%204.0%20smart%20factories%2C%E2%80%99%202019&author=Fern%C3%A1ndez-Caram%C3%A9s&title=%E2%80%98A%20review%20on%20the%20application%20of%20blockchain%20to%20the%20next%20generation%20of%20cybersecure%20industry%204.0%20smart%20factories%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fern%C3%A1ndez-Caram%C3%A9s%2C%20T.M.%20Fraga-Lamas%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98A%20review%20on%20the%20application%20of%20blockchain%20to%20the%20next%20generation%20of%20cybersecure%20industry%204.0%20smart%20factories%2C%E2%80%99%202019) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fern%C3%A1ndez-Caram%C3%A9s%2C%20T.M.%20Fraga-Lamas%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98A%20review%20on%20the%20application%20of%20blockchain%20to%20the%20next%20generation%20of%20cybersecure%20industry%204.0%20smart%20factories%2C%E2%80%99%202019)

[^45]: N. Kshetri and J. Voas, ‘‘Blockchain in developing countries,’’ IT Prof., vol. 20, no. 2, pp. 11–14, Mar. 2018. [[Kshetri_blockchainDevelopingCountries_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kshetri%2C%20N.%20Voas%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20in%20developing%20countries%2C%E2%80%99%202018-03&author=Kshetri&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20in%20developing%20countries%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kshetri%2C%20N.%20Voas%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20in%20developing%20countries%2C%E2%80%99%202018-03) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kshetri%2C%20N.%20Voas%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20in%20developing%20countries%2C%E2%80%99%202018-03)

[^46]: J. Vora et al., ‘‘BHEEM: A blockchain-based framework for securing electronic health records,’’ in Proc. IEEE Globecom Workshops (GC Wkshps), Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, 2018, pp. 1–6. [[Vora_et+al_bheemBlockchainbasedFrameworkSecuringElectronic_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vora%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98BHEEM%3A%20A%20blockchain-based%20framework%20for%20securing%20electronic%20health%20records%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vora%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98BHEEM%3A%20A%20blockchain-based%20framework%20for%20securing%20electronic%20health%20records%2C%E2%80%99%202018) 

[^47]: T. Yu, Z. Lin, and Q. Tang, ‘‘Blockchain: The introduction and its application in financial accounting,’’ J. Corporate Accounting Finance, vol. 29, no. 4, pp. 37–47, Oct. 2018. [[Yu_et+al_blockchainIntroductionApplicationFinancialAccounting_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yu%2C%20T.%20Lin%2C%20Z.%20Tang%2C%20Q.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20The%20introduction%20and%20its%20application%20in%20financial%20accounting%2C%E2%80%99%202018-10&author=Yu&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20The%20introduction%20and%20its%20application%20in%20financial%20accounting%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yu%2C%20T.%20Lin%2C%20Z.%20Tang%2C%20Q.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20The%20introduction%20and%20its%20application%20in%20financial%20accounting%2C%E2%80%99%202018-10) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yu%2C%20T.%20Lin%2C%20Z.%20Tang%2C%20Q.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20The%20introduction%20and%20its%20application%20in%20financial%20accounting%2C%E2%80%99%202018-10)

[^48]: L. M. Palma, M. A. G. Vigil, F. L. Pereira, and J. E. Martina, ‘‘Blockchain and smart contracts for higher education registry in Brazil,’’ Int. J. Netw. Manage., vol. 29, no. 3, p. e2061, May 2019. [[Palma_et+al_blockchainSmartContractsHigherEducation_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Palma%2C%20L.M.%20Vigil%2C%20M.A.G.%20Pereira%2C%20F.L.%20Martina%2C%20J.E.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20and%20smart%20contracts%20for%20higher%20education%20registry%20in%20Brazil%2C%E2%80%99%202019-05&author=Palma&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20and%20smart%20contracts%20for%20higher%20education%20registry%20in%20Brazil%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Palma%2C%20L.M.%20Vigil%2C%20M.A.G.%20Pereira%2C%20F.L.%20Martina%2C%20J.E.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20and%20smart%20contracts%20for%20higher%20education%20registry%20in%20Brazil%2C%E2%80%99%202019-05) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Palma%2C%20L.M.%20Vigil%2C%20M.A.G.%20Pereira%2C%20F.L.%20Martina%2C%20J.E.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20and%20smart%20contracts%20for%20higher%20education%20registry%20in%20Brazil%2C%E2%80%99%202019-05)

[^49]: M. Holland, J. Stjepandic, and C. Nigischer, ‘‘Intellectual property protection of 3D print supply chain with blockchain technology,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Eng., Technol. Innov. (ICE/ITMC), Jun. 2018, pp. 1–8. [[Holland_et+al_intellectualPropertyProtection3dPrint_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Holland%2C%20M.%20Stjepandic%2C%20J.%20Nigischer%2C%20C.%20%E2%80%98Intellectual%20property%20protection%20of%203D%20print%20supply%20chain%20with%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Holland&title=%E2%80%98Intellectual%20property%20protection%20of%203D%20print%20supply%20chain%20with%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Holland%2C%20M.%20Stjepandic%2C%20J.%20Nigischer%2C%20C.%20%E2%80%98Intellectual%20property%20protection%20of%203D%20print%20supply%20chain%20with%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Holland%2C%20M.%20Stjepandic%2C%20J.%20Nigischer%2C%20C.%20%E2%80%98Intellectual%20property%20protection%20of%203D%20print%20supply%20chain%20with%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^50]: G. Nguyen and K. Kim, ‘‘A survey about consensus algorithms used in blockchain,’’ J. Inf. Process. Syst., vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 101–128, 2018. [[Nguyen_aSurveyAboutConsensusAlgorithms_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nguyen%2C%20G.%20Kim%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98A%20survey%20about%20consensus%20algorithms%20used%20in%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Nguyen&title=%E2%80%98A%20survey%20about%20consensus%20algorithms%20used%20in%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nguyen%2C%20G.%20Kim%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98A%20survey%20about%20consensus%20algorithms%20used%20in%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nguyen%2C%20G.%20Kim%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98A%20survey%20about%20consensus%20algorithms%20used%20in%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^51]: J. Vora, P. DevMurari, S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, N. Kumar, and M. S. Obaidat, ‘‘Blind signatures based secured E-Healthcare system,’’ in Proc. Int. Conf. Comput., Inf. Telecommun. Syst. (CITS), Jul. 2018, pp. 1–5. [[Vora_et+al_blindSignaturesBasedSecuredEhealthcare_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vora%2C%20J.%20DevMurari%2C%20P.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Tyagi%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blind%20signatures%20based%20secured%20E-Healthcare%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vora%2C%20J.%20DevMurari%2C%20P.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Tyagi%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blind%20signatures%20based%20secured%20E-Healthcare%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) 

[^52]: Y. Zhao, K. Peng, B. Xu, Y. Liu, W. Xiong, and Y. Han, ‘‘Applied engineering programs of energy blockchain in US,’’ Energy Procedia, vol. 158, pp. 2787–2793, Feb. 2019. [[Zhao_et+al_appliedEngineeringProgramsEnergyBlockchain_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhao%2C%20Y.%20Peng%2C%20K.%20Xu%2C%20B.%20Liu%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98Applied%20engineering%20programs%20of%20energy%20blockchain%20in%20US%2C%E2%80%99%202019-02&author=Zhao&title=%E2%80%98Applied%20engineering%20programs%20of%20energy%20blockchain%20in%20US%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhao%2C%20Y.%20Peng%2C%20K.%20Xu%2C%20B.%20Liu%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98Applied%20engineering%20programs%20of%20energy%20blockchain%20in%20US%2C%E2%80%99%202019-02) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhao%2C%20Y.%20Peng%2C%20K.%20Xu%2C%20B.%20Liu%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98Applied%20engineering%20programs%20of%20energy%20blockchain%20in%20US%2C%E2%80%99%202019-02)

[^53]: J. Hinckeldeyn and K. Jochen, ‘‘(Short paper) developing a smart storage container for a blockchain-based supply chain application,’’ in Proc. Crypto Valley Conf. Blockchain Technol. (CVCBT), Jun. 2018, pp. 97–100. [[Hinckeldeyn_shortPaperDevelopingSmartStorage_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hinckeldeyn%2C%20J.%20Jochen%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98%28Short%20paper%29%20developing%20a%20smart%20storage%20container%20for%20a%20blockchain-based%20supply%20chain%20application%2C%E2%80%99%202018-06) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hinckeldeyn%2C%20J.%20Jochen%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98%28Short%20paper%29%20developing%20a%20smart%20storage%20container%20for%20a%20blockchain-based%20supply%20chain%20application%2C%E2%80%99%202018-06) 

[^54]: M. Andoni, V. Robu, D. Flynn, S. Abram, D. Geach, D. Jenkins, P. McCallum, and A. Peacock, ‘‘Blockchain technology in the energy sector: A systematic review of challenges and opportunities,’’ Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev., vol. 100, pp. 143–174, Feb. 2019. [[Andoni_et+al_blockchainTechnologyEnergySectorSystematic_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Andoni%2C%20M.%20Robu%2C%20V.%20Flynn%2C%20D.%20Abram%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20in%20the%20energy%20sector%3A%20A%20systematic%20review%20of%20challenges%20and%20opportunities%2C%E2%80%99%202019-02&author=Andoni&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20in%20the%20energy%20sector%3A%20A%20systematic%20review%20of%20challenges%20and%20opportunities%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Andoni%2C%20M.%20Robu%2C%20V.%20Flynn%2C%20D.%20Abram%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20in%20the%20energy%20sector%3A%20A%20systematic%20review%20of%20challenges%20and%20opportunities%2C%E2%80%99%202019-02) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Andoni%2C%20M.%20Robu%2C%20V.%20Flynn%2C%20D.%20Abram%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20in%20the%20energy%20sector%3A%20A%20systematic%20review%20of%20challenges%20and%20opportunities%2C%E2%80%99%202019-02)

[^55]: V. Brilliantova and T. W. Thurner, ‘‘Blockchain and the future of energy,’’ Technol. Soc., vol. 57, pp. 38–45, May 2019. [[Brilliantova_blockchainFutureEnergy_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Brilliantova%2C%20V.%20Thurner%2C%20T.W.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20and%20the%20future%20of%20energy%2C%E2%80%99%202019-05&author=Brilliantova&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20and%20the%20future%20of%20energy%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brilliantova%2C%20V.%20Thurner%2C%20T.W.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20and%20the%20future%20of%20energy%2C%E2%80%99%202019-05) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Brilliantova%2C%20V.%20Thurner%2C%20T.W.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20and%20the%20future%20of%20energy%2C%E2%80%99%202019-05)

[^56]: P. Bhattacharya, S. Tanwar, U. Bodke, S. Tyagi, and N. Kumar, ‘‘BinDaaS: Blockchain-based deep-learning as-a-service in healthcare 4.0 applications,’’ IEEE Trans. Netw. Sci. Eng., early access, Dec. 25, 2019, doi:10.1109/TNSE.2019.2961932. [[Bhattacharya_et+al_bindaasBlockchainbasedDeeplearningserviceHealthcare_2019]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1109/TNSE.2019.2961932)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1109/TNSE.2019.2961932)

[^57]: U. Bodkhe and S. Tanwar, ‘‘Secure data dissemination techniques for IoT applications: Research challenges and opportunities,’’ Softw., Pract. Exper., pp. 1–23, Feb. 2020, doi:10.1002/spe.2811. [[Bodkhe_secureDataDisseminationTechniquesIot_2020]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1002/spe.2811)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1002/spe.2811)

[^58]: U. Bodkhe, P. Bhattacharya, S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, N. Kumar, and M. S. Obaidat, ‘‘BloHosT: Blockchain enabled smart tourism and hospitality management,’’ in Proc. Int. Conf. Comput., Inf. Telecommun. Syst. (CITS), Beijing, China, Aug. 2019, pp. 1–5. [[Bodkhe_et+al_blohostBlockchainEnabledSmartTourism_2019]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bodkhe%2C%20U.%20Bhattacharya%2C%20P.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Tyagi%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98BloHosT%3A%20Blockchain%20enabled%20smart%20tourism%20and%20hospitality%20management%2C%E2%80%99%202019-08) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bodkhe%2C%20U.%20Bhattacharya%2C%20P.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Tyagi%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98BloHosT%3A%20Blockchain%20enabled%20smart%20tourism%20and%20hospitality%20management%2C%E2%80%99%202019-08) 

[^59]: M. M. Queiroz and S. F. Wamba, ‘‘Blockchain adoption challenges in supply chain: An empirical investigation of the main drivers in India and the USA,’’ Int. J. Inf. Manage., vol. 46, pp. 70–82, Jun. 2019. [[Queiroz_blockchainAdoptionChallengesSupplyChain_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Queiroz%2C%20M.M.%20Wamba%2C%20S.F.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20adoption%20challenges%20in%20supply%20chain%3A%20An%20empirical%20investigation%20of%20the%20main%20drivers%20in%20India%20and%20the%20USA%2C%E2%80%99%202019-06&author=Queiroz&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20adoption%20challenges%20in%20supply%20chain%3A%20An%20empirical%20investigation%20of%20the%20main%20drivers%20in%20India%20and%20the%20USA%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Queiroz%2C%20M.M.%20Wamba%2C%20S.F.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20adoption%20challenges%20in%20supply%20chain%3A%20An%20empirical%20investigation%20of%20the%20main%20drivers%20in%20India%20and%20the%20USA%2C%E2%80%99%202019-06) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Queiroz%2C%20M.M.%20Wamba%2C%20S.F.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20adoption%20challenges%20in%20supply%20chain%3A%20An%20empirical%20investigation%20of%20the%20main%20drivers%20in%20India%20and%20the%20USA%2C%E2%80%99%202019-06)

[^60]: F. Tian, ‘‘A supply chain traceability system for food safety based on HACCP, blockchain & Internet of Things,’’ in Proc. Int. Conf. Service Syst. Service Manage., Jun. 2017, pp. 1–6. [[Tian_aSupplyChainTraceabilitySystem_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tian%2C%20F.%20%E2%80%98A%20supply%20chain%20traceability%20system%20for%20food%20safety%20based%20on%20HACCP%2C%20blockchain%20%26%20Internet%20of%20Things%2C%E2%80%99%202017-06) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tian%2C%20F.%20%E2%80%98A%20supply%20chain%20traceability%20system%20for%20food%20safety%20based%20on%20HACCP%2C%20blockchain%20%26%20Internet%20of%20Things%2C%E2%80%99%202017-06) 

[^61]: M. P. Caro, M. S. Ali, M. Vecchio, and R. Giaffreda, ‘‘Blockchainbased traceability in agri-food supply chain management: A practical implementation,’’ in Proc. IoT Vertical Topical Summit Agricult.-Tuscany (IOT Tuscany), May 2018, pp. 1–4. [[Caro_et+al_blockchainbasedTraceabilityAgrifoodSupplyChain_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Caro%2C%20M.P.%20Ali%2C%20M.S.%20Vecchio%2C%20M.%20Giaffreda%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98Blockchainbased%20traceability%20in%20agri-food%20supply%20chain%20management%3A%20A%20practical%20implementation%2C%E2%80%99%202018-05) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Caro%2C%20M.P.%20Ali%2C%20M.S.%20Vecchio%2C%20M.%20Giaffreda%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98Blockchainbased%20traceability%20in%20agri-food%20supply%20chain%20management%3A%20A%20practical%20implementation%2C%E2%80%99%202018-05) 

[^62]: G. Perboli, S. Musso, and M. Rosano, ‘‘Blockchain in logistics and supply chain: A lean approach for designing real-world use cases,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 62018–62028, 2018. [[Perboli_et+al_blockchainLogisticsSupplyChainLean_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Perboli%2C%20G.%20Musso%2C%20S.%20Rosano%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20in%20logistics%20and%20supply%20chain%3A%20A%20lean%20approach%20for%20designing%20real-world%20use%20cases%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Perboli&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20in%20logistics%20and%20supply%20chain%3A%20A%20lean%20approach%20for%20designing%20real-world%20use%20cases%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Perboli%2C%20G.%20Musso%2C%20S.%20Rosano%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20in%20logistics%20and%20supply%20chain%3A%20A%20lean%20approach%20for%20designing%20real-world%20use%20cases%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Perboli%2C%20G.%20Musso%2C%20S.%20Rosano%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20in%20logistics%20and%20supply%20chain%3A%20A%20lean%20approach%20for%20designing%20real-world%20use%20cases%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^63]: F. Tian, ‘‘An agri-food supply chain traceability system for China based on RFID & blockchain technology,’’ in Proc. 13th Int. Conf. Service Syst. Service Manage. (ICSSSM), Jun. 2016, pp. 1–6. [[Tian_anAgrifoodSupplyChainTraceability_2016]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tian%2C%20F.%20%E2%80%98An%20agri-food%20supply%20chain%20traceability%20system%20for%20China%20based%20on%20RFID%20%26%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99%202016-06) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tian%2C%20F.%20%E2%80%98An%20agri-food%20supply%20chain%20traceability%20system%20for%20China%20based%20on%20RFID%20%26%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99%202016-06) 

[^64]: D. Tse, B. Zhang, Y. Yang, C. Cheng, and H. Mu, ‘‘Blockchain application in food supply information security,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Ind. Eng. Eng. Manage. (IEEM), Dec. 2017, pp. 1357–1361. [[Tse_et+al_blockchainApplicationFoodSupplyInformation_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tse%2C%20D.%20Zhang%2C%20B.%20Yang%2C%20Y.%20Cheng%2C%20C.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20application%20in%20food%20supply%20information%20security%2C%E2%80%99%202017-12&author=Tse&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20application%20in%20food%20supply%20information%20security%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tse%2C%20D.%20Zhang%2C%20B.%20Yang%2C%20Y.%20Cheng%2C%20C.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20application%20in%20food%20supply%20information%20security%2C%E2%80%99%202017-12) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tse%2C%20D.%20Zhang%2C%20B.%20Yang%2C%20Y.%20Cheng%2C%20C.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20application%20in%20food%20supply%20information%20security%2C%E2%80%99%202017-12)

[^65]: N. Kshetri, ‘‘1 Blockchain’s roles in meeting key supply chain management objectives,’’ Int. J. Inf. Manage., vol. 39, pp. 80–89, Apr. 2018. [[Kshetri_1BlockchainRolesMeetingSupply_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kshetri%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%981%20Blockchain%E2%80%99s%20roles%20in%20meeting%20key%20supply%20chain%20management%20objectives%2C%E2%80%99%202018-04&author=Kshetri&title=%E2%80%981%20Blockchain%E2%80%99s%20roles%20in%20meeting%20key%20supply%20chain%20management%20objectives%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kshetri%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%981%20Blockchain%E2%80%99s%20roles%20in%20meeting%20key%20supply%20chain%20management%20objectives%2C%E2%80%99%202018-04) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kshetri%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%981%20Blockchain%E2%80%99s%20roles%20in%20meeting%20key%20supply%20chain%20management%20objectives%2C%E2%80%99%202018-04)

[^66]: K. Kuhi, K. Kaare, and O. Koppel, ‘‘Ensuring performance measurement integrity in logistics using blockchain,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Service Oper. Logistics, Informat. (SOLI), Jul. 2018, pp. 256–261. [[Kuhi_et+al_ensuringPerformanceMeasurementIntegrityLogistics_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kuhi%2C%20K.%20Kaare%2C%20K.%20Koppel%2C%20O.%20%E2%80%98Ensuring%20performance%20measurement%20integrity%20in%20logistics%20using%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kuhi%2C%20K.%20Kaare%2C%20K.%20Koppel%2C%20O.%20%E2%80%98Ensuring%20performance%20measurement%20integrity%20in%20logistics%20using%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) 

[^67]: H. Min, ‘‘Blockchain technology for enhancing supply chain resilience,’’ Bus. Horizons, vol. 62, no. 1, pp. 35–45, Jan. 2019. [[Min_blockchainTechnologyEnhancingSupplyChain_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Min%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20for%20enhancing%20supply%20chain%20resilience%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01&author=Min&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20for%20enhancing%20supply%20chain%20resilience%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Min%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20for%20enhancing%20supply%20chain%20resilience%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Min%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20technology%20for%20enhancing%20supply%20chain%20resilience%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01)

[^68]: K. Leng, Y. Bi, L. Jing, H.-C. Fu, and I. van Nieuwenhuyse, ‘‘Research on agricultural supply chain system with double chain architecture based on blockchain technology,’’ Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 86, pp. 641–649, Sep. 2018. [[Leng_et+al_researchAgriculturalSupplyChainSystem_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Leng%2C%20K.%20Bi%2C%20Y.%20Jing%2C%20L.%20Fu%2C%20H.-C.%20%E2%80%98Research%20on%20agricultural%20supply%20chain%20system%20with%20double%20chain%20architecture%20based%20on%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99%202018-09&author=Leng&title=%E2%80%98Research%20on%20agricultural%20supply%20chain%20system%20with%20double%20chain%20architecture%20based%20on%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Leng%2C%20K.%20Bi%2C%20Y.%20Jing%2C%20L.%20Fu%2C%20H.-C.%20%E2%80%98Research%20on%20agricultural%20supply%20chain%20system%20with%20double%20chain%20architecture%20based%20on%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99%202018-09) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Leng%2C%20K.%20Bi%2C%20Y.%20Jing%2C%20L.%20Fu%2C%20H.-C.%20%E2%80%98Research%20on%20agricultural%20supply%20chain%20system%20with%20double%20chain%20architecture%20based%20on%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99%202018-09)

[^69]: I. Weber, X. Xu, R. Riveret, G. Governatori, A. Ponomarev, and J. Mendling, ‘‘Untrusted business process monitoring and execution using blockchain,’’ in Proc. Int. Conf. Bus. Process Manage., 2016, pp. 329–347. [[Weber_et+al_untrustedBusinessProcessMonitoringExecution_2016]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Weber%2C%20I.%20Xu%2C%20X.%20Riveret%2C%20R.%20Governatori%2C%20G.%20%E2%80%98Untrusted%20business%20process%20monitoring%20and%20execution%20using%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Weber%2C%20I.%20Xu%2C%20X.%20Riveret%2C%20R.%20Governatori%2C%20G.%20%E2%80%98Untrusted%20business%20process%20monitoring%20and%20execution%20using%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202016) 

[^70]: S. Krishnamurty, ‘‘Blockchain for business,’’ Wilmott, vol. 2018, no. 96, pp. 18–19, 2018. [[Krishnamurty_blockchainBusiness_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Krishnamurty%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20for%20business%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Krishnamurty&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20for%20business%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Krishnamurty%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20for%20business%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Krishnamurty%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20for%20business%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^71]: S. Guerreiro, S. J. H. van Kervel, and E. Babkin, ‘‘Towards devising an architectural framework for enterprise operating systems,’’ in Proc. ICSOFT, 2013, pp. 578–585. [[Guerreiro_et+al_towardsDevisingArchitecturalFrameworkEnterprise_2013]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Guerreiro%2C%20S.%20Kervel%2C%20S.J.H.%20Babkin%2C%20E.%20%E2%80%98Towards%20devising%20an%20architectural%20framework%20for%20enterprise%20operating%20systems%2C%E2%80%99%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Guerreiro%2C%20S.%20Kervel%2C%20S.J.H.%20Babkin%2C%20E.%20%E2%80%98Towards%20devising%20an%20architectural%20framework%20for%20enterprise%20operating%20systems%2C%E2%80%99%202013) 

[^72]: D. Mao, F. Wang, Z. Hao, and H. Li, ‘‘Credit evaluation system based on blockchain for multiple stakeholders in the food supply chain,’’ Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health, vol. 15, no. 8, p. 1627, 2018. [[Mao_et+al_creditEvaluationSystemBasedBlockchain_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mao%2C%20D.%20Wang%2C%20F.%20Hao%2C%20Z.%20Li%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98Credit%20evaluation%20system%20based%20on%20blockchain%20for%20multiple%20stakeholders%20in%20the%20food%20supply%20chain%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Mao&title=%E2%80%98Credit%20evaluation%20system%20based%20on%20blockchain%20for%20multiple%20stakeholders%20in%20the%20food%20supply%20chain%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mao%2C%20D.%20Wang%2C%20F.%20Hao%2C%20Z.%20Li%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98Credit%20evaluation%20system%20based%20on%20blockchain%20for%20multiple%20stakeholders%20in%20the%20food%20supply%20chain%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mao%2C%20D.%20Wang%2C%20F.%20Hao%2C%20Z.%20Li%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98Credit%20evaluation%20system%20based%20on%20blockchain%20for%20multiple%20stakeholders%20in%20the%20food%20supply%20chain%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^73]: S. Singh and N. Singh, ‘‘Blockchain: Future of financial and cyber security,’’ in Proc. 2nd Int. Conf. Contemp. Comput. Informat. (IC3I), Dec. 2016, pp. 463–467. [[Singh_blockchainFutureFinancialCyberSecurity_2016]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Singh%2C%20S.%20Singh%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20Future%20of%20financial%20and%20cyber%20security%2C%E2%80%99%202016-12) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Singh%2C%20S.%20Singh%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20Future%20of%20financial%20and%20cyber%20security%2C%E2%80%99%202016-12) 

[^74]: F. Imbault, M. Swiatek, R. de Beaufort, and R. Plana, ‘‘The green blockchain: Managing decentralized energy production and consumption,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Environ. Electr. Eng. IEEE Ind. Commercial Power Syst. Eur. (EEEIC/I&CPS Europe), Jun. 2017, pp. 1–5. [[Imbault_et+al_theGreenBlockchainManagingDecentralized_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Imbault%2C%20F.%20Swiatek%2C%20M.%20Beaufort%2C%20R.%20Plana%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98The%20green%20blockchain%3A%20Managing%20decentralized%20energy%20production%20and%20consumption%2C%E2%80%99%202017&author=Imbault&title=%E2%80%98The%20green%20blockchain%3A%20Managing%20decentralized%20energy%20production%20and%20consumption%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Imbault%2C%20F.%20Swiatek%2C%20M.%20Beaufort%2C%20R.%20Plana%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98The%20green%20blockchain%3A%20Managing%20decentralized%20energy%20production%20and%20consumption%2C%E2%80%99%202017) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Imbault%2C%20F.%20Swiatek%2C%20M.%20Beaufort%2C%20R.%20Plana%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98The%20green%20blockchain%3A%20Managing%20decentralized%20energy%20production%20and%20consumption%2C%E2%80%99%202017)

[^75]: S. Noor, W. Yang, M. Guo, K. H. van Dam, and X. Wang, ‘‘Energy demand side management within micro-grid networks enhanced by blockchain,’’ Appl. Energy, vol. 228, pp. 1385–1398, Oct. 2018. [[Noor_et+al_energyDemandSideManagementWithin_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Noor%2C%20S.%20Yang%2C%20W.%20Guo%2C%20M.%20Dam%2C%20K.H.%20%E2%80%98Energy%20demand%20side%20management%20within%20micro-grid%20networks%20enhanced%20by%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-10&author=Noor&title=%E2%80%98Energy%20demand%20side%20management%20within%20micro-grid%20networks%20enhanced%20by%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Noor%2C%20S.%20Yang%2C%20W.%20Guo%2C%20M.%20Dam%2C%20K.H.%20%E2%80%98Energy%20demand%20side%20management%20within%20micro-grid%20networks%20enhanced%20by%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-10) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Noor%2C%20S.%20Yang%2C%20W.%20Guo%2C%20M.%20Dam%2C%20K.H.%20%E2%80%98Energy%20demand%20side%20management%20within%20micro-grid%20networks%20enhanced%20by%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-10)

[^76]: J. Truby, ‘‘Decarbonizing bitcoin: Law and policy choices for reducing the energy consumption of blockchain technologies and digital currencies,’’ Energy Res. Social Sci., vol. 44, pp. 399–410, Oct. 2018. [[Truby_decarbonizingBitcoinPolicyChoicesReducing_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Truby%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Decarbonizing%20bitcoin%3A%20Law%20and%20policy%20choices%20for%20reducing%20the%20energy%20consumption%20of%20blockchain%20technologies%20and%20digital%20currencies%2C%E2%80%99%202018-10&author=Truby&title=%E2%80%98Decarbonizing%20bitcoin%3A%20Law%20and%20policy%20choices%20for%20reducing%20the%20energy%20consumption%20of%20blockchain%20technologies%20and%20digital%20currencies%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Truby%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Decarbonizing%20bitcoin%3A%20Law%20and%20policy%20choices%20for%20reducing%20the%20energy%20consumption%20of%20blockchain%20technologies%20and%20digital%20currencies%2C%E2%80%99%202018-10) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Truby%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Decarbonizing%20bitcoin%3A%20Law%20and%20policy%20choices%20for%20reducing%20the%20energy%20consumption%20of%20blockchain%20technologies%20and%20digital%20currencies%2C%E2%80%99%202018-10)

[^77]: N. M. Kumar, ‘‘Blockchain: Enabling wide range of services in distributed energy system,’’ Beni-Suef Univ. J. Basic Appl. Sci., vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 701–704, Dec. 2018. [[Kumar_blockchainEnablingWideRangeServices_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kumar%2C%20N.M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20Enabling%20wide%20range%20of%20services%20in%20distributed%20energy%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202018-12&author=Kumar&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20Enabling%20wide%20range%20of%20services%20in%20distributed%20energy%20system%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kumar%2C%20N.M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20Enabling%20wide%20range%20of%20services%20in%20distributed%20energy%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202018-12) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kumar%2C%20N.M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20Enabling%20wide%20range%20of%20services%20in%20distributed%20energy%20system%2C%E2%80%99%202018-12)

[^78]: C. DeCusatis and K. Lotay, ‘‘Secure, decentralized energy resource management using the ethereum blockchain,’’ in Proc. 17th IEEE Int. Conf. Trust, Secur. Privacy Comput. Commun./ 12th IEEE Int. Conf. Big Data Sci. Eng. (TrustCom/BigDataSE), Aug. 2018, pp. 1907–1913. [[Decusatis_secureDecentralizedEnergyResourceManagement_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=DeCusatis%2C%20C.%20Lotay%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98Secure%2C%20decentralized%20energy%20resource%20management%20using%20the%20ethereum%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=DeCusatis%2C%20C.%20Lotay%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98Secure%2C%20decentralized%20energy%20resource%20management%20using%20the%20ethereum%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08) 

[^79]: E. S. Kang, S. J. Pee, J. G. Song, and J. W. Jang, ‘‘A blockchain-based energy trading platform for smart homes in a microgrid,’’ in Proc. 3rd Int. Conf. Comput. Commun. Syst. (ICCCS), Apr. 2018, pp. 472–476. [[Kang_et+al_aBlockchainbasedEnergyTradingPlatform_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kang%2C%20E.S.%20Pee%2C%20S.J.%20Song%2C%20J.G.%20Jang%2C%20J.W.%20%E2%80%98A%20blockchain-based%20energy%20trading%20platform%20for%20smart%20homes%20in%20a%20microgrid%2C%E2%80%99%202018-04) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kang%2C%20E.S.%20Pee%2C%20S.J.%20Song%2C%20J.G.%20Jang%2C%20J.W.%20%E2%80%98A%20blockchain-based%20energy%20trading%20platform%20for%20smart%20homes%20in%20a%20microgrid%2C%E2%80%99%202018-04) 

[^80]: M. Hinterstocker, C. Dufter, S. von Roon, A. Bogensperger, and A. Zeiselmair, ‘‘Potential impact of blockchain solutions on energy markets,’’ in Proc. 15th Int. Conf. Eur. Energy Market (EEM), Jun. 2018, pp. 1–5. [[Hinterstocker_et+al_potentialImpactBlockchainSolutionsEnergy_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hinterstocker%2C%20M.%20Dufter%2C%20C.%20Roon%2C%20S.%20Bogensperger%2C%20A.%20%E2%80%98Potential%20impact%20of%20blockchain%20solutions%20on%20energy%20markets%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Hinterstocker&title=%E2%80%98Potential%20impact%20of%20blockchain%20solutions%20on%20energy%20markets%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hinterstocker%2C%20M.%20Dufter%2C%20C.%20Roon%2C%20S.%20Bogensperger%2C%20A.%20%E2%80%98Potential%20impact%20of%20blockchain%20solutions%20on%20energy%20markets%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hinterstocker%2C%20M.%20Dufter%2C%20C.%20Roon%2C%20S.%20Bogensperger%2C%20A.%20%E2%80%98Potential%20impact%20of%20blockchain%20solutions%20on%20energy%20markets%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^81]: M. J. Ashley and M. S. Johnson, ‘‘Establishing a secure, transparent, and autonomous blockchain of custody for renewable energy credits and carbon credits,’’ IEEE Eng. Manag. Rev., vol. 46, no. 4, pp. 100–102, Dec. 2018. [[Ashley_establishingSecureTransparentAutonomousBlockchain_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ashley%2C%20M.J.%20Johnson%2C%20M.S.%20%E2%80%98Establishing%20a%20secure%2C%20transparent%2C%20and%20autonomous%20blockchain%20of%20custody%20for%20renewable%20energy%20credits%20and%20carbon%20credits%2C%E2%80%99%202018-12&author=Ashley&title=%E2%80%98Establishing%20a%20secure%2C%20transparent%2C%20and%20autonomous%20blockchain%20of%20custody%20for%20renewable%20energy%20credits%20and%20carbon%20credits%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ashley%2C%20M.J.%20Johnson%2C%20M.S.%20%E2%80%98Establishing%20a%20secure%2C%20transparent%2C%20and%20autonomous%20blockchain%20of%20custody%20for%20renewable%20energy%20credits%20and%20carbon%20credits%2C%E2%80%99%202018-12) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ashley%2C%20M.J.%20Johnson%2C%20M.S.%20%E2%80%98Establishing%20a%20secure%2C%20transparent%2C%20and%20autonomous%20blockchain%20of%20custody%20for%20renewable%20energy%20credits%20and%20carbon%20credits%2C%E2%80%99%202018-12)

[^82]: C. Plaza, J. Gil, F. de Chezelles, and K. A. Strang, ‘‘Distributed solar selfconsumption and blockchain solar energy exchanges on the public grid within an energy community,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Environ. Electr. Eng. IEEE Ind. Commercial Power Syst. Eur. (EEEIC/I&CPSEurope), Jun. 2018, pp. 1–4. [[Plaza_et+al_distributedSolarSelfconsumptionBlockchainSolar_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Plaza%2C%20C.%20Gil%2C%20J.%20Chezelles%2C%20F.%20Strang%2C%20K.A.%20%E2%80%98Distributed%20solar%20selfconsumption%20and%20blockchain%20solar%20energy%20exchanges%20on%20the%20public%20grid%20within%20an%20energy%20community%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Plaza&title=%E2%80%98Distributed%20solar%20selfconsumption%20and%20blockchain%20solar%20energy%20exchanges%20on%20the%20public%20grid%20within%20an%20energy%20community%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Plaza%2C%20C.%20Gil%2C%20J.%20Chezelles%2C%20F.%20Strang%2C%20K.A.%20%E2%80%98Distributed%20solar%20selfconsumption%20and%20blockchain%20solar%20energy%20exchanges%20on%20the%20public%20grid%20within%20an%20energy%20community%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Plaza%2C%20C.%20Gil%2C%20J.%20Chezelles%2C%20F.%20Strang%2C%20K.A.%20%E2%80%98Distributed%20solar%20selfconsumption%20and%20blockchain%20solar%20energy%20exchanges%20on%20the%20public%20grid%20within%20an%20energy%20community%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^83]: Y. Wang, Z. Su, Q. Xu, and N. Zhang, ‘‘Contract based energy blockchain for secure electric vehicles charging in smart community,’’ in Proc. IEEE 16th Intl Conf Dependable, Autonomic Secure Comput., 16th Int. Conf Pervasive Intell. Comput., 4th Int. Conf Big Data Intell. Comput. Cyber Sci. Technol. Congr. (DASC/PiCom/DataCom/CyberSciTech), Aug. 2018, pp. 323–327. [[Wang_et+al_contractBasedEnergyBlockchainSecure_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20Y.%20Su%2C%20Z.%20Xu%2C%20Q.%20Zhang%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%98Contract%20based%20energy%20blockchain%20for%20secure%20electric%20vehicles%20charging%20in%20smart%20community%2C%E2%80%99%20DASC/PiCom/DataCom/CyberSciTech%29%2C%20Aug.%202018&author=Wang&title=%E2%80%98Contract%20based%20energy%20blockchain%20for%20secure%20electric%20vehicles%20charging%20in%20smart%20community%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20Y.%20Su%2C%20Z.%20Xu%2C%20Q.%20Zhang%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%98Contract%20based%20energy%20blockchain%20for%20secure%20electric%20vehicles%20charging%20in%20smart%20community%2C%E2%80%99%20DASC/PiCom/DataCom/CyberSciTech%29%2C%20Aug.%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20Y.%20Su%2C%20Z.%20Xu%2C%20Q.%20Zhang%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%98Contract%20based%20energy%20blockchain%20for%20secure%20electric%20vehicles%20charging%20in%20smart%20community%2C%E2%80%99%20DASC/PiCom/DataCom/CyberSciTech%29%2C%20Aug.%202018)

[^84]: N. Mohamed, J. Al-Jaroodi, and S. Lazarova-Molnar, ‘‘Leveraging the capabilities of industry 4.0 for improving energy efficiency in smart factories,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 18008–18020, 2019. [[Mohamed_et+al_leveragingCapabilitiesIndustry40Improving_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mohamed%2C%20N.%20Al-Jaroodi%2C%20J.%20Lazarova-Molnar%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Leveraging%20the%20capabilities%20of%20industry%204.0%20for%20improving%20energy%20efficiency%20in%20smart%20factories%2C%E2%80%99%202019&author=Mohamed&title=%E2%80%98Leveraging%20the%20capabilities%20of%20industry%204.0%20for%20improving%20energy%20efficiency%20in%20smart%20factories%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mohamed%2C%20N.%20Al-Jaroodi%2C%20J.%20Lazarova-Molnar%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Leveraging%20the%20capabilities%20of%20industry%204.0%20for%20improving%20energy%20efficiency%20in%20smart%20factories%2C%E2%80%99%202019) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mohamed%2C%20N.%20Al-Jaroodi%2C%20J.%20Lazarova-Molnar%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Leveraging%20the%20capabilities%20of%20industry%204.0%20for%20improving%20energy%20efficiency%20in%20smart%20factories%2C%E2%80%99%202019)

[^85]: A. Goranovic, M. Meisel, L. Fotiadis, S. Wilker, A. Treytl, and T. Sauter, ‘‘Blockchain applications in microgrids an overview of current projects and concepts,’’ in Proc. IECON-43rd Annu. Conf. IEEE Ind. Electron. Soc., Oct. 2017, pp. 6153–6158. [[Goranovic_et+al_blockchainApplicationsMicrogridsOverviewCurrent_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Goranovic%2C%20A.%20Meisel%2C%20M.%20Fotiadis%2C%20L.%20Wilker%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20applications%20in%20microgrids%20an%20overview%20of%20current%20projects%20and%20concepts%2C%E2%80%99%202017-10&author=Goranovic&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20applications%20in%20microgrids%20an%20overview%20of%20current%20projects%20and%20concepts%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Goranovic%2C%20A.%20Meisel%2C%20M.%20Fotiadis%2C%20L.%20Wilker%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20applications%20in%20microgrids%20an%20overview%20of%20current%20projects%20and%20concepts%2C%E2%80%99%202017-10) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Goranovic%2C%20A.%20Meisel%2C%20M.%20Fotiadis%2C%20L.%20Wilker%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20applications%20in%20microgrids%20an%20overview%20of%20current%20projects%20and%20concepts%2C%E2%80%99%202017-10)

[^86]: A. Meeuw, S. Schopfer, and F. Wortmann, ‘‘Experimental bandwidth benchmarking for P2P markets in blockchain managed microgrids,’’ Energy Procedia, vol. 159, pp. 370–375, Feb. 2019. [[Meeuw_et+al_experimentalBandwidthBenchmarkingP2pMarkets_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Meeuw%2C%20A.%20Schopfer%2C%20S.%20Wortmann%2C%20F.%20%E2%80%98Experimental%20bandwidth%20benchmarking%20for%20P2P%20markets%20in%20blockchain%20managed%20microgrids%2C%E2%80%99%202019-02&author=Meeuw&title=%E2%80%98Experimental%20bandwidth%20benchmarking%20for%20P2P%20markets%20in%20blockchain%20managed%20microgrids%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Meeuw%2C%20A.%20Schopfer%2C%20S.%20Wortmann%2C%20F.%20%E2%80%98Experimental%20bandwidth%20benchmarking%20for%20P2P%20markets%20in%20blockchain%20managed%20microgrids%2C%E2%80%99%202019-02) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Meeuw%2C%20A.%20Schopfer%2C%20S.%20Wortmann%2C%20F.%20%E2%80%98Experimental%20bandwidth%20benchmarking%20for%20P2P%20markets%20in%20blockchain%20managed%20microgrids%2C%E2%80%99%202019-02)

[^87]: N. Wang, X. Zhou, X. Lu, Z. Guan, L. Wu, X. Du, and M. Guizani, ‘‘When energy trading meets blockchain in electrical power system: The state of the art,’’ Appl. Sci., vol. 9, no. 8, p. 1561, 2019. [[Wang_et+al_whenEnergyTradingMeetsBlockchain_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20N.%20Zhou%2C%20X.%20Lu%2C%20X.%20Guan%2C%20Z.%20%E2%80%98When%20energy%20trading%20meets%20blockchain%20in%20electrical%20power%20system%3A%20The%20state%20of%20the%20art%2C%E2%80%99%202019&author=Wang&title=%E2%80%98When%20energy%20trading%20meets%20blockchain%20in%20electrical%20power%20system%3A%20The%20state%20of%20the%20art%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20N.%20Zhou%2C%20X.%20Lu%2C%20X.%20Guan%2C%20Z.%20%E2%80%98When%20energy%20trading%20meets%20blockchain%20in%20electrical%20power%20system%3A%20The%20state%20of%20the%20art%2C%E2%80%99%202019) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20N.%20Zhou%2C%20X.%20Lu%2C%20X.%20Guan%2C%20Z.%20%E2%80%98When%20energy%20trading%20meets%20blockchain%20in%20electrical%20power%20system%3A%20The%20state%20of%20the%20art%2C%E2%80%99%202019)

[^88]: M. Roon, T. Schenkelberg, and D. Sümmermann, ‘‘Faqs-easily charge your electric car with reliable charging station providers,’’ EVBox, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Tech. Rep., 2017. J. Kishigami, S. Fujimura, H. Watanabe, A. Nakadaira, and A. Akutsu, ‘‘The blockchain-based digital content distribution system,’’ in Proc. IEEE 5th Int. Conf. Big Data Cloud Comput., Aug. 2015, pp. 187–190. H. R. Hasan and K. Salah, ‘‘Proof of delivery of digital assets using blockchain and smart contracts,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 65439–65448, 2018. N. Fotiou and G. C. Polyzos, ‘‘Decentralized name-based security for content distribution using blockchains,’’ in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Commun. Workshops (INFOCOM WKSHPS), Apr. 2016, pp. 415–420. [[Roon_et+al_faqseasilyChargeYourElectricWith_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Roon%2C%20M.%20Schenkelberg%2C%20T.%20S%C3%BCmmermann%2C%20D.%20Kishigami%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Faqs-easily%20charge%20your%20electric%20car%20with%20reliable%20charging%20station%20providers%2C%E2%80%99%202017&author=Roon&title=%E2%80%98Faqs-easily%20charge%20your%20electric%20car%20with%20reliable%20charging%20station%20providers%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Roon%2C%20M.%20Schenkelberg%2C%20T.%20S%C3%BCmmermann%2C%20D.%20Kishigami%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Faqs-easily%20charge%20your%20electric%20car%20with%20reliable%20charging%20station%20providers%2C%E2%80%99%202017) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Roon%2C%20M.%20Schenkelberg%2C%20T.%20S%C3%BCmmermann%2C%20D.%20Kishigami%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Faqs-easily%20charge%20your%20electric%20car%20with%20reliable%20charging%20station%20providers%2C%E2%80%99%202017)

[^Kiyomoto_et+al_2017_a]: S. Kiyomoto, M. S. Rahman, and A. Basu, ‘‘On blockchain-based anonymized dataset distribution platform,’’ in Proc. IEEE 15th Int. Conf. Softw. Eng. Res., Manage. Appl. (SERA), Jun. 2017, pp. 85–92. D. Bhowmik and T. Feng, ‘‘The multimedia blockchain: A distributed and tamper-proof media transaction framework,’’ in Proc. 22nd Int. Conf. Digit. Signal Process. (DSP), Aug. 2017, pp. 1–5. G. C. Polyzos and N. Fotiou, ‘‘Blockchain-assisted information distribution for the Internet of Things,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Inf. Reuse Integr. (IRI), Aug. 2017, pp. 75–78. P.-W. Chen, B.-S. Jiang, and C.-H. Wang, ‘‘Blockchain-based payment collection supervision system using pervasive bitcoin digital wallet,’’ in Proc. IEEE 13th Int. Conf. Wireless Mobile Comput., Netw. Commun. (WiMob), Oct. 2017, pp. 139–146. [[Kiyomoto_et+al_onBlockchainbasedAnonymizedDatasetDistribution_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kiyomoto%2C%20S.%20Rahman%2C%20M.S.%20Basu%2C%20A.%20Bhowmik%2C%20D.%20%E2%80%98On%20blockchain-based%20anonymized%20dataset%20distribution%20platform%2C%E2%80%99%202017&author=Kiyomoto&title=%E2%80%98On%20blockchain-based%20anonymized%20dataset%20distribution%20platform%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kiyomoto%2C%20S.%20Rahman%2C%20M.S.%20Basu%2C%20A.%20Bhowmik%2C%20D.%20%E2%80%98On%20blockchain-based%20anonymized%20dataset%20distribution%20platform%2C%E2%80%99%202017) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kiyomoto%2C%20S.%20Rahman%2C%20M.S.%20Basu%2C%20A.%20Bhowmik%2C%20D.%20%E2%80%98On%20blockchain-based%20anonymized%20dataset%20distribution%20platform%2C%E2%80%99%202017)

[^Sun_et+al_2017_a]: H. Sun, H. Mao, X. Bai, Z. Chen, K. Hu, and W. Yu, ‘‘Multi-blockchain model for central bank digital currency,’’ in Proc. 18th Int. Conf. Parallel Distrib. Comput., Appl. Technol. (PDCAT), Dec. 2017, pp. 360–367. [[Sun_et+al_multiblockchainModelCentralBankDigital_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sun%2C%20H.%20Mao%2C%20H.%20Bai%2C%20X.%20Chen%2C%20Z.%20%E2%80%98Multi-blockchain%20model%20for%20central%20bank%20digital%20currency%2C%E2%80%99%202017-12&author=Sun&title=%E2%80%98Multi-blockchain%20model%20for%20central%20bank%20digital%20currency%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sun%2C%20H.%20Mao%2C%20H.%20Bai%2C%20X.%20Chen%2C%20Z.%20%E2%80%98Multi-blockchain%20model%20for%20central%20bank%20digital%20currency%2C%E2%80%99%202017-12) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sun%2C%20H.%20Mao%2C%20H.%20Bai%2C%20X.%20Chen%2C%20Z.%20%E2%80%98Multi-blockchain%20model%20for%20central%20bank%20digital%20currency%2C%E2%80%99%202017-12)

[^Wu_et+al_2018_a]: Y. Wu, P. Zheng, J. Guo, W. Zhang, and J. Huang, ‘‘A controllable efficient content distribution framework based on blockchain and ISODATA,’’ in Proc. 17th IEEE Int. Conf. Trust, Secur. Privacy Comput. Commun./ 12th IEEE Int. Conf. Big Data Sci. Eng. (TrustCom/BigDataSE), Aug. 2018, pp. 1698–1701. Q. Liu and K. Li, ‘‘Decentration transaction method based on blockchain technology,’’ in Proc. Int. Conf. Intell. Transp., Big Data Smart City (ICITBS), Jan. 2018, pp. 416–419. I. Önder and H. Treiblmaier, ‘‘Blockchain and tourism: Three research propositions,’’ Ann. Tourism Res., vol. 72, pp. 180–182, Sep. 2018. [[Wu_et+al_aControllableEfficientContentDistribution_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wu%2C%20Y.%20Zheng%2C%20P.%20Guo%2C%20J.%20Zhang%2C%20W.%20%E2%80%98A%20controllable%20efficient%20content%20distribution%20framework%20based%20on%20blockchain%20and%20ISODATA%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08&author=Wu&title=%E2%80%98A%20controllable%20efficient%20content%20distribution%20framework%20based%20on%20blockchain%20and%20ISODATA%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wu%2C%20Y.%20Zheng%2C%20P.%20Guo%2C%20J.%20Zhang%2C%20W.%20%E2%80%98A%20controllable%20efficient%20content%20distribution%20framework%20based%20on%20blockchain%20and%20ISODATA%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wu%2C%20Y.%20Zheng%2C%20P.%20Guo%2C%20J.%20Zhang%2C%20W.%20%E2%80%98A%20controllable%20efficient%20content%20distribution%20framework%20based%20on%20blockchain%20and%20ISODATA%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08)

[^Yue_et+al_2016_a]: X. Yue, H. Wang, D. Jin, M. Li, and W. Jiang, ‘‘Healthcare data gateways: Found healthcare intelligence on blockchain with novel privacy risk control,’’ J. Med. Syst., vol. 40, no. 10, p. 218, Oct. 2016. [[Yue_et+al_healthcareDataGatewaysFoundHealthcare_2016]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yue%2C%20X.%20Wang%2C%20H.%20Jin%2C%20D.%20Li%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Healthcare%20data%20gateways%3A%20Found%20healthcare%20intelligence%20on%20blockchain%20with%20novel%20privacy%20risk%20control%2C%E2%80%99%202016-10&author=Yue&title=%E2%80%98Healthcare%20data%20gateways%3A%20Found%20healthcare%20intelligence%20on%20blockchain%20with%20novel%20privacy%20risk%20control%2C%E2%80%99&year=2016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yue%2C%20X.%20Wang%2C%20H.%20Jin%2C%20D.%20Li%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Healthcare%20data%20gateways%3A%20Found%20healthcare%20intelligence%20on%20blockchain%20with%20novel%20privacy%20risk%20control%2C%E2%80%99%202016-10) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yue%2C%20X.%20Wang%2C%20H.%20Jin%2C%20D.%20Li%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Healthcare%20data%20gateways%3A%20Found%20healthcare%20intelligence%20on%20blockchain%20with%20novel%20privacy%20risk%20control%2C%E2%80%99%202016-10)

[^Azaria_et+al_2016_a]: A. Azaria, A. Ekblaw, T. Vieira, and A. Lippman, ‘‘MedRec: Using blockchain for medical data access and permission management,’’ in Proc. 2nd Int. Conf. Open Big Data (OBD), Aug. 2016, pp. 25–30. Z. Shae and J. J. P. Tsai, ‘‘On the design of a blockchain platform for clinical trial and precision medicine,’’ in Proc. IEEE 37th Int. Conf. Distrib. Comput. Syst. (ICDCS), Jun. 2017, pp. 1972–1980. [[Azaria_et+al_medrecUsingBlockchainMedicalData_2016]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Azaria%2C%20A.%20Ekblaw%2C%20A.%20Vieira%2C%20T.%20Lippman%2C%20A.%20%E2%80%98MedRec%3A%20Using%20blockchain%20for%20medical%20data%20access%20and%20permission%20management%2C%E2%80%99%202016-08&author=Azaria&title=%E2%80%98MedRec%3A%20Using%20blockchain%20for%20medical%20data%20access%20and%20permission%20management%2C%E2%80%99&year=2016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Azaria%2C%20A.%20Ekblaw%2C%20A.%20Vieira%2C%20T.%20Lippman%2C%20A.%20%E2%80%98MedRec%3A%20Using%20blockchain%20for%20medical%20data%20access%20and%20permission%20management%2C%E2%80%99%202016-08) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Azaria%2C%20A.%20Ekblaw%2C%20A.%20Vieira%2C%20T.%20Lippman%2C%20A.%20%E2%80%98MedRec%3A%20Using%20blockchain%20for%20medical%20data%20access%20and%20permission%20management%2C%E2%80%99%202016-08)

[^Zhang_et+al_2016_a]: J. Zhang, N. Xue, and X. Huang, ‘‘A secure system for pervasive social network-based healthcare,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 4, pp. 9239–9250, 2016. [[Zhang_et+al_aSecureSystemPervasiveSocial_2016]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhang%2C%20J.%20Xue%2C%20N.%20Huang%2C%20X.%20%E2%80%98A%20secure%20system%20for%20pervasive%20social%20network-based%20healthcare%2C%E2%80%99%202016&author=Zhang&title=%E2%80%98A%20secure%20system%20for%20pervasive%20social%20network-based%20healthcare%2C%E2%80%99&year=2016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhang%2C%20J.%20Xue%2C%20N.%20Huang%2C%20X.%20%E2%80%98A%20secure%20system%20for%20pervasive%20social%20network-based%20healthcare%2C%E2%80%99%202016) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhang%2C%20J.%20Xue%2C%20N.%20Huang%2C%20X.%20%E2%80%98A%20secure%20system%20for%20pervasive%20social%20network-based%20healthcare%2C%E2%80%99%202016)

[^Dubovitskaya_et+al_2017_a]: A. Dubovitskaya, Z. Xu, S. Ryu, M. Schumacher, and F. Wang, ‘‘How blockchain could empower eHealth: An application for radiation oncology,’’ in Proc. VLDB Workshop Data Manage. Anal. Med. Healthcare, 2017, pp. 3–6. [[Dubovitskaya_et+al_howBlockchainCouldEmpowerEhealth_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dubovitskaya%2C%20A.%20Xu%2C%20Z.%20Ryu%2C%20S.%20Schumacher%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98How%20blockchain%20could%20empower%20eHealth%3A%20An%20application%20for%20radiation%20oncology%2C%E2%80%99%202017&author=Dubovitskaya&title=%E2%80%98How%20blockchain%20could%20empower%20eHealth%3A%20An%20application%20for%20radiation%20oncology%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dubovitskaya%2C%20A.%20Xu%2C%20Z.%20Ryu%2C%20S.%20Schumacher%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98How%20blockchain%20could%20empower%20eHealth%3A%20An%20application%20for%20radiation%20oncology%2C%E2%80%99%202017) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dubovitskaya%2C%20A.%20Xu%2C%20Z.%20Ryu%2C%20S.%20Schumacher%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98How%20blockchain%20could%20empower%20eHealth%3A%20An%20application%20for%20radiation%20oncology%2C%E2%80%99%202017)

[^Xia_et+al_2017_a]: Q. Xia, E. B. Sifah, K. O. Asamoah, J. Gao, X. Du, and M. Guizani, ‘‘MeDShare: Trust-less medical data sharing among cloud service providers via blockchain,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 5, pp. 14757–14767, 2017. [[Xia_et+al_medshareTrustlessMedicalDataSharing_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Xia%2C%20Q.%20Sifah%2C%20E.B.%20Asamoah%2C%20K.O.%20Gao%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98MeDShare%3A%20Trust-less%20medical%20data%20sharing%20among%20cloud%20service%20providers%20via%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202017&author=Xia&title=%E2%80%98MeDShare%3A%20Trust-less%20medical%20data%20sharing%20among%20cloud%20service%20providers%20via%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Xia%2C%20Q.%20Sifah%2C%20E.B.%20Asamoah%2C%20K.O.%20Gao%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98MeDShare%3A%20Trust-less%20medical%20data%20sharing%20among%20cloud%20service%20providers%20via%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202017) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Xia%2C%20Q.%20Sifah%2C%20E.B.%20Asamoah%2C%20K.O.%20Gao%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98MeDShare%3A%20Trust-less%20medical%20data%20sharing%20among%20cloud%20service%20providers%20via%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202017)

[^Rifi_et+al_2017_a]: N. Rifi, E. Rachkidi, N. Agoulmine, and N. C. Taher, ‘‘Towards using blockchain technology for eHealth data access management,’’ in Proc. 4th Int. Conf. Adv. Biomed. Eng. (ICABME), Oct. 2017, pp. 1–4. [[Rifi_et+al_towardsUsingBlockchainTechnologyEhealth_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rifi%2C%20N.%20Rachkidi%2C%20E.%20Agoulmine%2C%20N.%20Taher%2C%20N.C.%20%E2%80%98Towards%20using%20blockchain%20technology%20for%20eHealth%20data%20access%20management%2C%E2%80%99%202017-10) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rifi%2C%20N.%20Rachkidi%2C%20E.%20Agoulmine%2C%20N.%20Taher%2C%20N.C.%20%E2%80%98Towards%20using%20blockchain%20technology%20for%20eHealth%20data%20access%20management%2C%E2%80%99%202017-10) 

[^Liang_et+al_2017_a]: X. Liang, J. Zhao, S. Shetty, J. Liu, and D. Li, ‘‘Integrating blockchain for data sharing and collaboration in mobile healthcare applications,’’ in Proc. IEEE 28th Annu. Int. Symp. Pers., Indoor, Mobile Radio Commun. (PIMRC), Oct. 2017, pp. 1–5. [[Liang_et+al_integratingBlockchainDataSharingCollaboration_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liang%2C%20X.%20Zhao%2C%20J.%20Shetty%2C%20S.%20Liu%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Integrating%20blockchain%20for%20data%20sharing%20and%20collaboration%20in%20mobile%20healthcare%20applications%2C%E2%80%99%202017-10) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liang%2C%20X.%20Zhao%2C%20J.%20Shetty%2C%20S.%20Liu%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Integrating%20blockchain%20for%20data%20sharing%20and%20collaboration%20in%20mobile%20healthcare%20applications%2C%E2%80%99%202017-10) 

[^Magyar_et+al_2017_a]: G. Magyar, ‘‘Blockchain: Solving the privacy and research availability tradeoff for EHR data: A new disruptive technology in health data management,’’ in Proc. IEEE 30th Neumann Colloq. (NC), Nov. 2017, pp. 000135–000140. Z. Alhadhrami, S. Alghfeli, M. Alghfeli, J. A. Abedlla, and K. Shuaib, ‘‘Introducing blockchains for healthcare,’’ in Proc. Int. Conf. Electr. Comput. Technol. Appl. (ICECTA), Nov. 2017, pp. 1–4. [[Magyar_et+al_blockchainSolvingPrivacyResearchAvailability_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Magyar%2C%20G.%20Alhadhrami%2C%20Z.%20Alghfeli%2C%20S.%20Alghfeli%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20Solving%20the%20privacy%20and%20research%20availability%20tradeoff%20for%20EHR%20data%3A%20A%20new%20disruptive%20technology%20in%20health%20data%20management%2C%E2%80%99%202017-11&author=Magyar&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20Solving%20the%20privacy%20and%20research%20availability%20tradeoff%20for%20EHR%20data%3A%20A%20new%20disruptive%20technology%20in%20health%20data%20management%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Magyar%2C%20G.%20Alhadhrami%2C%20Z.%20Alghfeli%2C%20S.%20Alghfeli%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20Solving%20the%20privacy%20and%20research%20availability%20tradeoff%20for%20EHR%20data%3A%20A%20new%20disruptive%20technology%20in%20health%20data%20management%2C%E2%80%99%202017-11) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Magyar%2C%20G.%20Alhadhrami%2C%20Z.%20Alghfeli%2C%20S.%20Alghfeli%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20Solving%20the%20privacy%20and%20research%20availability%20tradeoff%20for%20EHR%20data%3A%20A%20new%20disruptive%20technology%20in%20health%20data%20management%2C%E2%80%99%202017-11)

[^Jiang_et+al_2018_a]: S. Jiang, J. Cao, H. Wu, Y. Yang, M. Ma, and J. He, ‘‘BlocHIE: A blockchain-based platform for healthcare information exchange,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Smart Comput. (SMARTCOMP), Jun. 2018, pp. 49–56. [[Jiang_et+al_blochieBlockchainbasedPlatformHealthcareInformation_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jiang%2C%20S.%20Cao%2C%20J.%20Wu%2C%20H.%20Yang%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98BlocHIE%3A%20A%20blockchain-based%20platform%20for%20healthcare%20information%20exchange%2C%E2%80%99%202018-06) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jiang%2C%20S.%20Cao%2C%20J.%20Wu%2C%20H.%20Yang%2C%20Y.%20%E2%80%98BlocHIE%3A%20A%20blockchain-based%20platform%20for%20healthcare%20information%20exchange%2C%E2%80%99%202018-06) 

[^Theodouli_et+al_2018_a]: A. Theodouli, S. Arakliotis, K. Moschou, K. Votis, and D. Tzovaras, ‘‘On the design of a blockchain-based system to facilitate healthcare data sharing,’’ in Proc. 17th IEEE Int. Conf. Trust, Secur. Privacy Comput. Commun. 12th IEEE Int. Conf. Big Data Sci. Eng. (TrustCom/BigDataSE), Aug. 2018, pp. 1374–1379. X. Zhang and S. Poslad, ‘‘Blockchain support for flexible queries with granular access control to electronic medical records (EMR),’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Commun. (ICC), May 2018, pp. 1–6. [[Theodouli_et+al_onDesignBlockchainbasedSystemFacilitate_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Theodouli%2C%20A.%20Arakliotis%2C%20S.%20Moschou%2C%20K.%20Votis%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98On%20the%20design%20of%20a%20blockchain-based%20system%20to%20facilitate%20healthcare%20data%20sharing%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Theodouli%2C%20A.%20Arakliotis%2C%20S.%20Moschou%2C%20K.%20Votis%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98On%20the%20design%20of%20a%20blockchain-based%20system%20to%20facilitate%20healthcare%20data%20sharing%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08) 

[^Li_et+al_2018_a]: H. Li, L. Zhu, M. Shen, F. Gao, X. Tao, and S. Liu, ‘‘Blockchain-based data preservation system for medical data,’’ J. Med. Syst., vol. 42, no. 8, pp. 1–13, Aug. 2018. [[Li_et+al_blockchainbasedDataPreservationSystemMedical_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Li%2C%20H.%20Zhu%2C%20L.%20Shen%2C%20M.%20Gao%2C%20F.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain-based%20data%20preservation%20system%20for%20medical%20data%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08&author=Li&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain-based%20data%20preservation%20system%20for%20medical%20data%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Li%2C%20H.%20Zhu%2C%20L.%20Shen%2C%20M.%20Gao%2C%20F.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain-based%20data%20preservation%20system%20for%20medical%20data%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Li%2C%20H.%20Zhu%2C%20L.%20Shen%2C%20M.%20Gao%2C%20F.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain-based%20data%20preservation%20system%20for%20medical%20data%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08)

[^Fan_et+al_2018_a]: K. Fan, S. Wang, Y. Ren, H. Li, and Y. Yang, ‘‘MedBlock: Efficient and secure medical data sharing via blockchain,’’ J. Med. Syst., vol. 42, no. 8, p. 146, Aug. 2018. H. Wang and Y. Song, ‘‘Secure cloud-based EHR system using attributebased cryptosystem and blockchain,’’ J. Med. Syst., vol. 42, no. 8, p. 152, Aug. 2018. [[Fan_et+al_medblockEfficientSecureMedicalData_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fan%2C%20K.%20Wang%2C%20S.%20Ren%2C%20Y.%20Li%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98MedBlock%3A%20Efficient%20and%20secure%20medical%20data%20sharing%20via%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08&author=Fan&title=%E2%80%98MedBlock%3A%20Efficient%20and%20secure%20medical%20data%20sharing%20via%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fan%2C%20K.%20Wang%2C%20S.%20Ren%2C%20Y.%20Li%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98MedBlock%3A%20Efficient%20and%20secure%20medical%20data%20sharing%20via%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fan%2C%20K.%20Wang%2C%20S.%20Ren%2C%20Y.%20Li%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98MedBlock%3A%20Efficient%20and%20secure%20medical%20data%20sharing%20via%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08)

[^Kaur_et+al_2018_a]: H. Kaur, M. A. Alam, R. Jameel, A. K. Mourya, and V. Chang, ‘‘A proposed solution and future direction for blockchain-based heterogeneous medicare data in cloud environment,’’ J. Med. Syst., vol. 42, no. 8, p. 156, Aug. 2018. [[Kaur_et+al_aProposedSolutionFutureDirection_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kaur%2C%20H.%20Alam%2C%20M.A.%20Jameel%2C%20R.%20Mourya%2C%20A.K.%20%E2%80%98A%20proposed%20solution%20and%20future%20direction%20for%20blockchain-based%20heterogeneous%20medicare%20data%20in%20cloud%20environment%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08&author=Kaur&title=%E2%80%98A%20proposed%20solution%20and%20future%20direction%20for%20blockchain-based%20heterogeneous%20medicare%20data%20in%20cloud%20environment%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kaur%2C%20H.%20Alam%2C%20M.A.%20Jameel%2C%20R.%20Mourya%2C%20A.K.%20%E2%80%98A%20proposed%20solution%20and%20future%20direction%20for%20blockchain-based%20heterogeneous%20medicare%20data%20in%20cloud%20environment%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kaur%2C%20H.%20Alam%2C%20M.A.%20Jameel%2C%20R.%20Mourya%2C%20A.K.%20%E2%80%98A%20proposed%20solution%20and%20future%20direction%20for%20blockchain-based%20heterogeneous%20medicare%20data%20in%20cloud%20environment%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08)

[^Griggs_et+al_2018_a]: K. N. Griggs, O. Ossipova, C. P. Kohlios, A. N. Baccarini, E. A. Howson, and T. Hayajneh, ‘‘Healthcare blockchain system using smart contracts for secure automated remote patient monitoring,’’ J. Med. Syst., vol. 42, no. 7, p. 130, Jul. 2018. [[Griggs_et+al_healthcareBlockchainSystemUsingSmart_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Griggs%2C%20K.N.%20Ossipova%2C%20O.%20Kohlios%2C%20C.P.%20Baccarini%2C%20A.N.%20%E2%80%98Healthcare%20blockchain%20system%20using%20smart%20contracts%20for%20secure%20automated%20remote%20patient%20monitoring%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07&author=Griggs&title=%E2%80%98Healthcare%20blockchain%20system%20using%20smart%20contracts%20for%20secure%20automated%20remote%20patient%20monitoring%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Griggs%2C%20K.N.%20Ossipova%2C%20O.%20Kohlios%2C%20C.P.%20Baccarini%2C%20A.N.%20%E2%80%98Healthcare%20blockchain%20system%20using%20smart%20contracts%20for%20secure%20automated%20remote%20patient%20monitoring%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Griggs%2C%20K.N.%20Ossipova%2C%20O.%20Kohlios%2C%20C.P.%20Baccarini%2C%20A.N.%20%E2%80%98Healthcare%20blockchain%20system%20using%20smart%20contracts%20for%20secure%20automated%20remote%20patient%20monitoring%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07)

[^Guo_et+al_2018_a]: R. Guo, H. Shi, Q. Zhao, and D. Zheng, ‘‘Secure attribute-based signature scheme with multiple authorities for blockchain in electronic health records systems,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 11676–11686, 2018. [[Guo_et+al_secureAttributebasedSignatureSchemeWith_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Guo%2C%20R.%20Shi%2C%20H.%20Zhao%2C%20Q.%20Zheng%2C%20D.%20%E2%80%98Secure%20attribute-based%20signature%20scheme%20with%20multiple%20authorities%20for%20blockchain%20in%20electronic%20health%20records%20systems%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Guo&title=%E2%80%98Secure%20attribute-based%20signature%20scheme%20with%20multiple%20authorities%20for%20blockchain%20in%20electronic%20health%20records%20systems%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Guo%2C%20R.%20Shi%2C%20H.%20Zhao%2C%20Q.%20Zheng%2C%20D.%20%E2%80%98Secure%20attribute-based%20signature%20scheme%20with%20multiple%20authorities%20for%20blockchain%20in%20electronic%20health%20records%20systems%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Guo%2C%20R.%20Shi%2C%20H.%20Zhao%2C%20Q.%20Zheng%2C%20D.%20%E2%80%98Secure%20attribute-based%20signature%20scheme%20with%20multiple%20authorities%20for%20blockchain%20in%20electronic%20health%20records%20systems%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^Uddin_et+al_2018_a]: M. A. Uddin, A. Stranieri, I. Gondal, and V. Balasubramanian, ‘‘Continuous patient monitoring with a patient centric agent: A block architecture,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 32700–32726, 2018. [[Uddin_et+al_continuousPatientMonitoringWithPatient_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Uddin%2C%20M.A.%20Stranieri%2C%20A.%20Gondal%2C%20I.%20Balasubramanian%2C%20V.%20%E2%80%98Continuous%20patient%20monitoring%20with%20a%20patient%20centric%20agent%3A%20A%20block%20architecture%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Uddin&title=%E2%80%98Continuous%20patient%20monitoring%20with%20a%20patient%20centric%20agent%3A%20A%20block%20architecture%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Uddin%2C%20M.A.%20Stranieri%2C%20A.%20Gondal%2C%20I.%20Balasubramanian%2C%20V.%20%E2%80%98Continuous%20patient%20monitoring%20with%20a%20patient%20centric%20agent%3A%20A%20block%20architecture%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Uddin%2C%20M.A.%20Stranieri%2C%20A.%20Gondal%2C%20I.%20Balasubramanian%2C%20V.%20%E2%80%98Continuous%20patient%20monitoring%20with%20a%20patient%20centric%20agent%3A%20A%20block%20architecture%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^Sun_et+al_2018_a]: Y. Sun, R. Zhang, X. Wang, K. Gao, and L. Liu, ‘‘A decentralizing attribute-based signature for healthcare blockchain,’’ in Proc. 27th Int. Conf. Comput. Commun. Netw. (ICCCN), Jul. 2018, pp. 1–9. [[Sun_et+al_aDecentralizingAttributebasedSignatureHealthcare_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sun%2C%20Y.%20Zhang%2C%20R.%20Wang%2C%20X.%20Gao%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98A%20decentralizing%20attribute-based%20signature%20for%20healthcare%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sun%2C%20Y.%20Zhang%2C%20R.%20Wang%2C%20X.%20Gao%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98A%20decentralizing%20attribute-based%20signature%20for%20healthcare%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) 

[^Vora_et+al_2018_a]: J. Vora, P. Italiya, S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, N. Kumar, M. S. Obaidat, and K.-F. Hsiao, ‘‘Ensuring privacy and security in E-health records,’’ in Proc. Int. Conf. Comput., Inf. Telecommun. Syst. (CITS), Jul. 2018, pp. 1–5. K. Biswas and V. Muthukkumarasamy, ‘‘Securing smart cities using blockchain technology,’’ in Proc. IEEE 18th Int. Conf. High Perform. Comput. Commun.; IEEE 14th Int. Conf. Smart City; IEEE 2nd Int. Conf. Data Sci. Syst. (HPCC/SmartCity/DSS), Dec. 2016, pp. 1392–1393. [[Vora_et+al_ensuringPrivacySecurityEhealthRecords_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vora%2C%20J.%20Italiya%2C%20P.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Tyagi%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Ensuring%20privacy%20and%20security%20in%20E-health%20records%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vora%2C%20J.%20Italiya%2C%20P.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Tyagi%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Ensuring%20privacy%20and%20security%20in%20E-health%20records%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) 

[^Rivera_et+al_2017_a]: R. Rivera, J. G. Robledo, V. M. Larios, and J. M. Avalos, ‘‘How digital identity on blockchain can contribute in a smart city environment,’’ in Proc. Int. Smart Cities Conf. (ISC), Sep. 2017, pp. 1–4. D.-Y. Liao and X. Wang, ‘‘Design of a blockchain-based lottery system for smart cities applications,’’ in Proc. IEEE 3rd Int. Conf. Collaboration Internet Comput. (CIC), Oct. 2017, pp. 275–282. C. Lazaroiu and M. Roscia, ‘‘Smart district through IoT and blockchain,’’ in Proc. IEEE 6th Int. Conf. Renew. Energy Res. Appl. (ICRERA), Nov. 2017, pp. 454–461. P. K. Sharma and J. H. Park, ‘‘Blockchain based hybrid network architecture for the smart city,’’ Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 86, pp. 650–655, Sep. 2018. S. ben Dhaou and N. Lopes, ‘‘Analysing the transformational effects of emerging technologies on smart cities: Blockchain and IoT,’’ in Proc. 3rd Int. Conf. Smart Sustain. Technol. (SpliTech), Jun. 2018, pp. 1–10. [[Rivera_et+al_howDigitalIdentityBlockchainContribute_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rivera%2C%20R.%20Robledo%2C%20J.G.%20Larios%2C%20V.M.%20Avalos%2C%20J.M.%20%E2%80%98How%20digital%20identity%20on%20blockchain%20can%20contribute%20in%20a%20smart%20city%20environment%2C%E2%80%99%202017-09&author=Rivera&title=%E2%80%98How%20digital%20identity%20on%20blockchain%20can%20contribute%20in%20a%20smart%20city%20environment%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rivera%2C%20R.%20Robledo%2C%20J.G.%20Larios%2C%20V.M.%20Avalos%2C%20J.M.%20%E2%80%98How%20digital%20identity%20on%20blockchain%20can%20contribute%20in%20a%20smart%20city%20environment%2C%E2%80%99%202017-09) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rivera%2C%20R.%20Robledo%2C%20J.G.%20Larios%2C%20V.M.%20Avalos%2C%20J.M.%20%E2%80%98How%20digital%20identity%20on%20blockchain%20can%20contribute%20in%20a%20smart%20city%20environment%2C%E2%80%99%202017-09)

[^Li_2018_b]: S. Li, ‘‘Application of blockchain technology in smart city infrastructure,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Smart Internet Things (SmartIoT), Aug. 2018, pp. 276–2766. [[Li_applicationBlockchainTechnologySmartCity_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Li%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Application%20of%20blockchain%20technology%20in%20smart%20city%20infrastructure%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Li%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Application%20of%20blockchain%20technology%20in%20smart%20city%20infrastructure%2C%E2%80%99%202018-08) 

[^Kumari_et+al_2018_a]: A. Kumari, S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, N. Kumar, M. Maasberg, and K.-K.-R. Choo, ‘‘Multimedia big data computing and Internet of Things applications: A taxonomy and process model,’’ J. Netw. Comput. Appl., vol. 124, pp. 169–195, Dec. 2018. [[Kumari_et+al_multimediaDataComputingInternetThings_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kumari%2C%20A.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Tyagi%2C%20S.%20Kumar%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%98Multimedia%20big%20data%20computing%20and%20Internet%20of%20Things%20applications%3A%20A%20taxonomy%20and%20process%20model%2C%E2%80%99%202018-12&author=Kumari&title=%E2%80%98Multimedia%20big%20data%20computing%20and%20Internet%20of%20Things%20applications%3A%20A%20taxonomy%20and%20process%20model%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kumari%2C%20A.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Tyagi%2C%20S.%20Kumar%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%98Multimedia%20big%20data%20computing%20and%20Internet%20of%20Things%20applications%3A%20A%20taxonomy%20and%20process%20model%2C%E2%80%99%202018-12) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kumari%2C%20A.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Tyagi%2C%20S.%20Kumar%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%98Multimedia%20big%20data%20computing%20and%20Internet%20of%20Things%20applications%3A%20A%20taxonomy%20and%20process%20model%2C%E2%80%99%202018-12)

[^Tanwar_et+al_2019_a]: S. Tanwar, S. Tanwar, L. M. Goya, M. Mittal, and B. Agarwal, Energy Conservation for IoT Devices: Concepts, Paradigms and Solutions. Springer, 2019. I. Mistry et al., ‘‘Blockchain for 5G-enabled IoT for industrial automation: A systematic review, solutions, and challenges,’’ Mech. Syst. Signal Process., vol. 135, 2020, Art. no. 106382. Q. K. Nguyen, ‘‘Blockchain—A financial technology for future sustainable development,’’ in Proc. 3rd Int. Conf. Green Technol. Sustain. Develop. (GTSD), Nov. 2016, pp. 51–54. [[Tanwar_et+al_EnergyConservationIotDevicesConcepts_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Goya%2C%20L.M.%20Mittal%2C%20M.%20Energy%20Conservation%20for%20IoT%20Devices%3A%20Concepts%2C%20Paradigms%20and%20Solutions%202019&author=Tanwar&title=Energy%20Conservation%20for%20IoT%20Devices%3A%20Concepts%2C%20Paradigms%20and%20Solutions&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Goya%2C%20L.M.%20Mittal%2C%20M.%20Energy%20Conservation%20for%20IoT%20Devices%3A%20Concepts%2C%20Paradigms%20and%20Solutions%202019) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Tanwar%2C%20S.%20Goya%2C%20L.M.%20Mittal%2C%20M.%20Energy%20Conservation%20for%20IoT%20Devices%3A%20Concepts%2C%20Paradigms%20and%20Solutions%202019)

[^Rimba_et+al_2017_a]: P. Rimba, A. B. Tran, I. Weber, M. Staples, A. Ponomarev, and X. Xu, ‘‘Comparing blockchain and cloud services for business process execution,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Softw. Archit. (ICSA), Apr. 2017, pp. 257–260. [[Rimba_et+al_comparingBlockchainCloudServicesBusiness_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rimba%2C%20P.%20Tran%2C%20A.B.%20Weber%2C%20I.%20Staples%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Comparing%20blockchain%20and%20cloud%20services%20for%20business%20process%20execution%2C%E2%80%99%202017-04) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rimba%2C%20P.%20Tran%2C%20A.B.%20Weber%2C%20I.%20Staples%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Comparing%20blockchain%20and%20cloud%20services%20for%20business%20process%20execution%2C%E2%80%99%202017-04) 

[^Lundbaek_2017_a]: L.-N. Lundbaek and M. Huth, ‘‘Oligarchic control of Business-toBusiness blockchains,’’ in Proc. IEEE Eur. Symp. Secur. Privacy Workshops (EuroS&PW), Apr. 2017, pp. 68–71. [[Lundbaek_oligarchicControlBusinesstobusinessBlockchains_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lundbaek%2C%20L.-N.%20Huth%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Oligarchic%20control%20of%20Business-toBusiness%20blockchains%2C%E2%80%99%202017-04) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lundbaek%2C%20L.-N.%20Huth%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Oligarchic%20control%20of%20Business-toBusiness%20blockchains%2C%E2%80%99%202017-04) 

[^Carminati_et+al_2018_a]: B. Carminati, C. Rondanini, and E. Ferrari, ‘‘Confidential business process execution on blockchain,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Web Services (ICWS), Jul. 2018, pp. 58–65. [[Carminati_et+al_confidentialBusinessProcessExecutionBlockchain_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Carminati%2C%20B.%20Rondanini%2C%20C.%20Ferrari%2C%20E.%20%E2%80%98Confidential%20business%20process%20execution%20on%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Carminati%2C%20B.%20Rondanini%2C%20C.%20Ferrari%2C%20E.%20%E2%80%98Confidential%20business%20process%20execution%20on%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) 

[^Johng_et+al_2018_a]: H. Johng, D. Kim, T. Hill, and L. Chung, ‘‘Using blockchain to enhance the trustworthiness of business processes: A goal-oriented approach,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Services Comput. (SCC), Jul. 2018, pp. 249–252. [[Johng_et+al_usingBlockchainEnhanceTrustworthinessBusiness_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Johng%2C%20H.%20Kim%2C%20D.%20Hill%2C%20T.%20Chung%2C%20L.%20%E2%80%98Using%20blockchain%20to%20enhance%20the%20trustworthiness%20of%20business%20processes%3A%20A%20goal-oriented%20approach%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Johng%2C%20H.%20Kim%2C%20D.%20Hill%2C%20T.%20Chung%2C%20L.%20%E2%80%98Using%20blockchain%20to%20enhance%20the%20trustworthiness%20of%20business%20processes%3A%20A%20goal-oriented%20approach%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) 

[^Wang_et+al_2018_a]: X. Wang, X. Xu, L. Feagan, S. Huang, L. Jiao, and W. Zhao, ‘‘Inter-bank payment system on enterprise blockchain platform,’’ in Proc. IEEE 11th Int. Conf. Cloud Comput. (CLOUD), Jul. 2018, pp. 614–621. [[Wang_et+al_interbankPaymentSystemEnterpriseBlockchain_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20X.%20Xu%2C%20X.%20Feagan%2C%20L.%20Huang%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Inter-bank%20payment%20system%20on%20enterprise%20blockchain%20platform%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20X.%20Xu%2C%20X.%20Feagan%2C%20L.%20Huang%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Inter-bank%20payment%20system%20on%20enterprise%20blockchain%20platform%2C%E2%80%99%202018-07) 

[^Tedeschi_et+al_2019_a]: P. Tedeschi, G. Piro, J. A. S. Murillo, N. Ignjatov, M. Pilc, K. Lebloch, and G. Boggia, ‘‘Blockchain as a service: Securing bartering functionalities in the H2020 symbIoTe framework,’’ Internet Technol. Lett., vol. 2, no. 1, p. e72, Jan. 2019. [[Tedeschi_et+al_blockchainServiceSecuringBarteringFunctionalities_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tedeschi%2C%20P.%20Piro%2C%20G.%20Murillo%2C%20J.A.S.%20Ignjatov%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20as%20a%20service%3A%20Securing%20bartering%20functionalities%20in%20the%20H2020%20symbIoTe%20framework%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01&author=Tedeschi&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20as%20a%20service%3A%20Securing%20bartering%20functionalities%20in%20the%20H2020%20symbIoTe%20framework%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tedeschi%2C%20P.%20Piro%2C%20G.%20Murillo%2C%20J.A.S.%20Ignjatov%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20as%20a%20service%3A%20Securing%20bartering%20functionalities%20in%20the%20H2020%20symbIoTe%20framework%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tedeschi%2C%20P.%20Piro%2C%20G.%20Murillo%2C%20J.A.S.%20Ignjatov%2C%20N.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20as%20a%20service%3A%20Securing%20bartering%20functionalities%20in%20the%20H2020%20symbIoTe%20framework%2C%E2%80%99%202019-01)

[^Mendling_et+al_2018_a]: J. Mendling et al., ‘‘Blockchains for business process managementchallenges and opportunities,’’ ACM Trans. Manage. Inf. Syst., vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 1–16, 2018. [[Mendling_et+al_blockchainsBusinessProcessManagementchallengesOpportunities_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mendling%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Blockchains%20for%20business%20process%20managementchallenges%20and%20opportunities%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Mendling&title=%E2%80%98Blockchains%20for%20business%20process%20managementchallenges%20and%20opportunities%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mendling%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Blockchains%20for%20business%20process%20managementchallenges%20and%20opportunities%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mendling%2C%20J.%20%E2%80%98Blockchains%20for%20business%20process%20managementchallenges%20and%20opportunities%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^Jhala_et+al_CSCloud_a]: K. S. Jhala, R. Oak, and M. Khare, ‘‘Smart collaboration mechanism using blockchain technology,’’ in Proc. 5th IEEE Int. Conf. Cyber Secur. Cloud Comput. (CSCloud) 4th IEEE Int. Conf. Edge Comput. Scalable Cloud (EdgeCom), Jun. 2018, pp. 117–121. [[Jhala_et+al_smartCollaborationMechanismUsingBlockchain_CSCloud]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jhala%2C%20K.S.%20Oak%2C%20R.%20Khare%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Smart%20collaboration%20mechanism%20using%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99%20CSCloud&author=Jhala&title=%E2%80%98Smart%20collaboration%20mechanism%20using%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99&year=CSCloud) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jhala%2C%20K.S.%20Oak%2C%20R.%20Khare%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Smart%20collaboration%20mechanism%20using%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99%20CSCloud) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jhala%2C%20K.S.%20Oak%2C%20R.%20Khare%2C%20M.%20%E2%80%98Smart%20collaboration%20mechanism%20using%20blockchain%20technology%2C%E2%80%99%20CSCloud)

[^Samaniego_2016_a]: M. Samaniego and R. Deters, ‘‘Hosting virtual IoT resources on edgehosts with blockchain,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Inf. Technol. (CIT), Dec. 2016, pp. 116–119. [[Samaniego_hostingVirtualIotResourcesEdgehosts_2016]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Samaniego%2C%20M.%20Deters%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98Hosting%20virtual%20IoT%20resources%20on%20edgehosts%20with%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202016-12&author=Samaniego&title=%E2%80%98Hosting%20virtual%20IoT%20resources%20on%20edgehosts%20with%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99&year=2016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Samaniego%2C%20M.%20Deters%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98Hosting%20virtual%20IoT%20resources%20on%20edgehosts%20with%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202016-12) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Samaniego%2C%20M.%20Deters%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98Hosting%20virtual%20IoT%20resources%20on%20edgehosts%20with%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202016-12)

[^Khan_2018_a]: M. A. Khan and K. Salah, ‘‘IoT security: Review, blockchain solutions, and open challenges,’’ Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 82, pp. 395–411, May 2018. [[Khan_iotSecurityReviewBlockchainSolutions_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Khan%2C%20M.A.%20Salah%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98IoT%20security%3A%20Review%2C%20blockchain%20solutions%2C%20and%20open%20challenges%2C%E2%80%99%202018-05&author=Khan&title=%E2%80%98IoT%20security%3A%20Review%2C%20blockchain%20solutions%2C%20and%20open%20challenges%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Khan%2C%20M.A.%20Salah%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98IoT%20security%3A%20Review%2C%20blockchain%20solutions%2C%20and%20open%20challenges%2C%E2%80%99%202018-05) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Khan%2C%20M.A.%20Salah%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98IoT%20security%3A%20Review%2C%20blockchain%20solutions%2C%20and%20open%20challenges%2C%E2%80%99%202018-05)

[^Singh_et+al_2018_a]: M. Singh, A. Singh, and S. Kim, ‘‘Blockchain: A game changer for securing IoT data,’’ in Proc. IEEE 4th World Forum Internet Things (WFIoT), Feb. 2018, pp. 51–55. [[Singh_et+al_blockchainGameChangerSecuringIot_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Singh%2C%20M.%20Singh%2C%20A.%20Kim%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20A%20game%20changer%20for%20securing%20IoT%20data%2C%E2%80%99%202018-02) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Singh%2C%20M.%20Singh%2C%20A.%20Kim%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%3A%20A%20game%20changer%20for%20securing%20IoT%20data%2C%E2%80%99%202018-02) 

[^Pustišek_2018_a]: M. Pustišek and A. Kos, ‘‘Approaches to front-end IoT application development for the ethereum blockchain,’’ Procedia Comput. Sci., vol. 129, pp. 410–419, Jan. 2018. [[Pustišek_approachesFrontIotApplicationDevelopment_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pusti%C5%A1ek%2C%20M.%20Kos%2C%20A.%20%E2%80%98Approaches%20to%20front-end%20IoT%20application%20development%20for%20the%20ethereum%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-01&author=Pusti%C5%A1ek&title=%E2%80%98Approaches%20to%20front-end%20IoT%20application%20development%20for%20the%20ethereum%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pusti%C5%A1ek%2C%20M.%20Kos%2C%20A.%20%E2%80%98Approaches%20to%20front-end%20IoT%20application%20development%20for%20the%20ethereum%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-01) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pusti%C5%A1ek%2C%20M.%20Kos%2C%20A.%20%E2%80%98Approaches%20to%20front-end%20IoT%20application%20development%20for%20the%20ethereum%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-01)

[^Huh_et+al_2017_a]: S. Huh, S. Cho, and S. Kim, ‘‘Managing IoT devices using blockchain platform,’’ in Proc. 19th Int. Conf. Adv. Commun. Technol. (ICACT), Feb. 2017, pp. 464–467. [[Huh_et+al_managingIotDevicesUsingBlockchain_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Huh%2C%20S.%20Cho%2C%20S.%20Kim%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Managing%20IoT%20devices%20using%20blockchain%20platform%2C%E2%80%99%202017&author=Huh&title=%E2%80%98Managing%20IoT%20devices%20using%20blockchain%20platform%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Huh%2C%20S.%20Cho%2C%20S.%20Kim%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Managing%20IoT%20devices%20using%20blockchain%20platform%2C%E2%80%99%202017) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Huh%2C%20S.%20Cho%2C%20S.%20Kim%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98Managing%20IoT%20devices%20using%20blockchain%20platform%2C%E2%80%99%202017)

[^Liao_et+al_2017_a]: C.-F. Liao, S.-W. Bao, C.-J. Cheng, and K. Chen, ‘‘On design issues and architectural styles for blockchain-driven IoT services,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Consum. Electron.-Taiwan (ICCE-TW), Jun. 2017, pp. 351–352. [[Liao_et+al_onDesignIssuesArchitecturalStyles_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liao%2C%20C.-F.%20Bao%2C%20S.-W.%20Cheng%2C%20C.-J.%20Chen%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98On%20design%20issues%20and%20architectural%20styles%20for%20blockchain-driven%20IoT%20services%2C%E2%80%99%202017-06) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liao%2C%20C.-F.%20Bao%2C%20S.-W.%20Cheng%2C%20C.-J.%20Chen%2C%20K.%20%E2%80%98On%20design%20issues%20and%20architectural%20styles%20for%20blockchain-driven%20IoT%20services%2C%E2%80%99%202017-06) 

[^Reyna_et+al_2018_a]: A. Reyna, C. Martín, J. Chen, E. Soler, and M. Díaz, ‘‘On blockchain and its integration with IoT. Challenges and opportunities,’’ Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 88, pp. 173–190, Nov. 2018. [[Reyna_et+al_onBlockchainIntegrationWithIot_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Reyna%2C%20A.%20Mart%C3%ADn%2C%20C.%20Chen%2C%20J.%20Soler%2C%20E.%20%E2%80%98On%20blockchain%20and%20its%20integration%20with%20IoT.%20Challenges%20and%20opportunities%2C%E2%80%99%202018-11&author=Reyna&title=%E2%80%98On%20blockchain%20and%20its%20integration%20with%20IoT.%20Challenges%20and%20opportunities%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Reyna%2C%20A.%20Mart%C3%ADn%2C%20C.%20Chen%2C%20J.%20Soler%2C%20E.%20%E2%80%98On%20blockchain%20and%20its%20integration%20with%20IoT.%20Challenges%20and%20opportunities%2C%E2%80%99%202018-11) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Reyna%2C%20A.%20Mart%C3%ADn%2C%20C.%20Chen%2C%20J.%20Soler%2C%20E.%20%E2%80%98On%20blockchain%20and%20its%20integration%20with%20IoT.%20Challenges%20and%20opportunities%2C%E2%80%99%202018-11)

[^Samaniego_et+al_2016_b]: M. Samaniego, U. Jamsrandorj, and R. Deters, ‘‘Blockchain as a service for IoT,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Internet Things (iThings) IEEE Green Comput. Commun. (GreenCom) IEEE Cyber, Phys. Social Comput. (CPSCom) IEEE Smart Data (SmartData), Dec. 2016, pp. 433–436. [[Samaniego_et+al_blockchainServiceIot_2016]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Samaniego%2C%20M.%20Jamsrandorj%2C%20U.%20Deters%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20as%20a%20service%20for%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99%202016-12&author=Samaniego&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20as%20a%20service%20for%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99&year=2016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Samaniego%2C%20M.%20Jamsrandorj%2C%20U.%20Deters%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20as%20a%20service%20for%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99%202016-12) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Samaniego%2C%20M.%20Jamsrandorj%2C%20U.%20Deters%2C%20R.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20as%20a%20service%20for%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99%202016-12)

[^Hammi_et+al_2018_a]: M. T. Hammi, B. Hammi, P. Bellot, and A. Serhrouchni, ‘‘Bubbles of trust: A decentralized blockchain-based authentication system for IoT,’’ Comput. Secur., vol. 78, pp. 126–142, Sep. 2018. [[Hammi_et+al_bubblesTrustDecentralizedBlockchainbasedAuthentication_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hammi%2C%20M.T.%20Hammi%2C%20B.%20Bellot%2C%20P.%20Serhrouchni%2C%20A.%20%E2%80%98Bubbles%20of%20trust%3A%20A%20decentralized%20blockchain-based%20authentication%20system%20for%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99%202018-09&author=Hammi&title=%E2%80%98Bubbles%20of%20trust%3A%20A%20decentralized%20blockchain-based%20authentication%20system%20for%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hammi%2C%20M.T.%20Hammi%2C%20B.%20Bellot%2C%20P.%20Serhrouchni%2C%20A.%20%E2%80%98Bubbles%20of%20trust%3A%20A%20decentralized%20blockchain-based%20authentication%20system%20for%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99%202018-09) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hammi%2C%20M.T.%20Hammi%2C%20B.%20Bellot%2C%20P.%20Serhrouchni%2C%20A.%20%E2%80%98Bubbles%20of%20trust%3A%20A%20decentralized%20blockchain-based%20authentication%20system%20for%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99%202018-09)

[^Minoli_2018_a]: D. Minoli and B. Occhiogrosso, ‘‘Blockchain mechanisms for IoT security,’’ Internet Things, vols. 1–2, pp. 1–13, Sep. 2018. [[Minoli_blockchainMechanismsIotSecurity_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Minoli%2C%20D.%20Occhiogrosso%2C%20B.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20mechanisms%20for%20IoT%20security%2C%E2%80%99%202018-09&author=Minoli&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20mechanisms%20for%20IoT%20security%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Minoli%2C%20D.%20Occhiogrosso%2C%20B.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20mechanisms%20for%20IoT%20security%2C%E2%80%99%202018-09) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Minoli%2C%20D.%20Occhiogrosso%2C%20B.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20mechanisms%20for%20IoT%20security%2C%E2%80%99%202018-09)

[^Novo_2018_a]: O. Novo, ‘‘Blockchain meets IoT: An architecture for scalable access management in IoT,’’ IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 1184–1195, Apr. 2018. [[Novo_blockchainMeetsIotArchitectureScalable_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Novo%2C%20O.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20meets%20IoT%3A%20An%20architecture%20for%20scalable%20access%20management%20in%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99%202018-04&author=Novo&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20meets%20IoT%3A%20An%20architecture%20for%20scalable%20access%20management%20in%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Novo%2C%20O.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20meets%20IoT%3A%20An%20architecture%20for%20scalable%20access%20management%20in%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99%202018-04) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Novo%2C%20O.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20meets%20IoT%3A%20An%20architecture%20for%20scalable%20access%20management%20in%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99%202018-04)

[^Han_et+al_2018_a]: R. Han, V. Gramoli, and X. Xu, ‘‘Evaluating blockchains for IoT,’’ in Proc. 9th IFIP Int. Conf. New Technol., Mobility Secur. (NTMS), Feb. 2018, pp. 1–5. [[Han_et+al_evaluatingBlockchainsIot_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Han%2C%20R.%20Gramoli%2C%20V.%20Xu%2C%20X.%20%E2%80%98Evaluating%20blockchains%20for%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99%202018-02) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Han%2C%20R.%20Gramoli%2C%20V.%20Xu%2C%20X.%20%E2%80%98Evaluating%20blockchains%20for%20IoT%2C%E2%80%99%202018-02) 

[^Kataoka_et+al_2018_a]: K. Kataoka, S. Gangwar, and P. Podili, ‘‘Trust list: Internet-wide and distributed IoT traffic management using blockchain and SDN,’’ in Proc. IEEE 4th World Forum Internet Things (WF-IoT), Feb. 2018, pp. 296–301. [[Kataoka_et+al_trustListInternetwideDistributedIot_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kataoka%2C%20K.%20Gangwar%2C%20S.%20Podili%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98Trust%20list%3A%20Internet-wide%20and%20distributed%20IoT%20traffic%20management%20using%20blockchain%20and%20SDN%2C%E2%80%99%202018-02) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kataoka%2C%20K.%20Gangwar%2C%20S.%20Podili%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98Trust%20list%3A%20Internet-wide%20and%20distributed%20IoT%20traffic%20management%20using%20blockchain%20and%20SDN%2C%E2%80%99%202018-02) 

[^Agrawal_et+al_2018_a]: R. Agrawal, P. Verma, R. Sonanis, U. Goel, A. De, S. A. Kondaveeti, and S. Shekhar, ‘‘Continuous security in IoT using blockchain,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech Signal Process. (ICASSP), Apr. 2018, pp. 6423–6427. [[Agrawal_et+al_continuousSecurityIotUsingBlockchain_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Agrawal%2C%20R.%20Verma%2C%20P.%20Sonanis%2C%20R.%20Goel%2C%20U.%20%E2%80%98Continuous%20security%20in%20IoT%20using%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-04) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Agrawal%2C%20R.%20Verma%2C%20P.%20Sonanis%2C%20R.%20Goel%2C%20U.%20%E2%80%98Continuous%20security%20in%20IoT%20using%20blockchain%2C%E2%80%99%202018-04) 

[^Zhong_et+al_2017_a]: R. Y. Zhong, X. Xu, E. Klotz, and S. T. Newman, ‘‘Intelligent manufacturing in the context of industry 4.0: A review,’’ Engineering, vol. 3, no. 5, pp. 616–630, Oct. 2017. [[Zhong_et+al_intelligentManufacturingContextIndustry40_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhong%2C%20R.Y.%20Xu%2C%20X.%20Klotz%2C%20E.%20Newman%2C%20S.T.%20%E2%80%98Intelligent%20manufacturing%20in%20the%20context%20of%20industry%204.0%3A%20A%20review%2C%E2%80%99%202017-10&author=Zhong&title=%E2%80%98Intelligent%20manufacturing%20in%20the%20context%20of%20industry%204.0%3A%20A%20review%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhong%2C%20R.Y.%20Xu%2C%20X.%20Klotz%2C%20E.%20Newman%2C%20S.T.%20%E2%80%98Intelligent%20manufacturing%20in%20the%20context%20of%20industry%204.0%3A%20A%20review%2C%E2%80%99%202017-10) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhong%2C%20R.Y.%20Xu%2C%20X.%20Klotz%2C%20E.%20Newman%2C%20S.T.%20%E2%80%98Intelligent%20manufacturing%20in%20the%20context%20of%20industry%204.0%3A%20A%20review%2C%E2%80%99%202017-10)

[^Backman_et+al_2017_a]: J. Backman, S. Yrjola, K. Valtanen, and O. Mammela, ‘‘Blockchain network slice broker in 5G: Slice leasing in factory of the future use case,’’ in Proc. Internet Things Bus. Models, Users, Netw., Nov. 2017, pp. 1–8. [[Backman_et+al_blockchainNetworkSliceBroker5g_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Backman%2C%20J.%20Yrjola%2C%20S.%20Valtanen%2C%20K.%20Mammela%2C%20O.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20network%20slice%20broker%20in%205G%3A%20Slice%20leasing%20in%20factory%20of%20the%20future%20use%20case%2C%E2%80%99%202017-11) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Backman%2C%20J.%20Yrjola%2C%20S.%20Valtanen%2C%20K.%20Mammela%2C%20O.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20network%20slice%20broker%20in%205G%3A%20Slice%20leasing%20in%20factory%20of%20the%20future%20use%20case%2C%E2%80%99%202017-11) 

[^Li_et+al_2018_c]: Z. Li, A. V. Barenji, and G. Q. Huang, ‘‘Toward a blockchain cloud manufacturing system as a peer to peer distributed network platform,’’ Robot. Comput.-Integr. Manuf., vol. 54, pp. 133–144, Dec. 2018. [[Li_et+al_towardBlockchainCloudManufacturingSystem_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Li%2C%20Z.%20Barenji%2C%20A.V.%20Huang%2C%20G.Q.%20%E2%80%98Toward%20a%20blockchain%20cloud%20manufacturing%20system%20as%20a%20peer%20to%20peer%20distributed%20network%20platform%2C%E2%80%99%202018-12&author=Li&title=%E2%80%98Toward%20a%20blockchain%20cloud%20manufacturing%20system%20as%20a%20peer%20to%20peer%20distributed%20network%20platform%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Li%2C%20Z.%20Barenji%2C%20A.V.%20Huang%2C%20G.Q.%20%E2%80%98Toward%20a%20blockchain%20cloud%20manufacturing%20system%20as%20a%20peer%20to%20peer%20distributed%20network%20platform%2C%E2%80%99%202018-12) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Li%2C%20Z.%20Barenji%2C%20A.V.%20Huang%2C%20G.Q.%20%E2%80%98Toward%20a%20blockchain%20cloud%20manufacturing%20system%20as%20a%20peer%20to%20peer%20distributed%20network%20platform%2C%E2%80%99%202018-12)

[^Li_et+al_2018_d]: Z. Li, L. Liu, A. V. Barenji, and W. Wang, ‘‘Cloud-based manufacturing blockchain: Secure knowledge sharing for injection mould redesign,’’ Procedia CIRP, vol. 72, pp. 961–966, 2018. [[Li_et+al_cloudbasedManufacturingBlockchainSecureKnowledge_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Li%2C%20Z.%20Liu%2C%20L.%20Barenji%2C%20A.V.%20Wang%2C%20W.%20%E2%80%98Cloud-based%20manufacturing%20blockchain%3A%20Secure%20knowledge%20sharing%20for%20injection%20mould%20redesign%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Li&title=%E2%80%98Cloud-based%20manufacturing%20blockchain%3A%20Secure%20knowledge%20sharing%20for%20injection%20mould%20redesign%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Li%2C%20Z.%20Liu%2C%20L.%20Barenji%2C%20A.V.%20Wang%2C%20W.%20%E2%80%98Cloud-based%20manufacturing%20blockchain%3A%20Secure%20knowledge%20sharing%20for%20injection%20mould%20redesign%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Li%2C%20Z.%20Liu%2C%20L.%20Barenji%2C%20A.V.%20Wang%2C%20W.%20%E2%80%98Cloud-based%20manufacturing%20blockchain%3A%20Secure%20knowledge%20sharing%20for%20injection%20mould%20redesign%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^Angrish_et+al_2018_a]: A. Angrish, B. Craver, M. Hasan, and B. Starly, ‘‘A case study for blockchain in manufacturing: ‘FabRec’: A prototype for peer-topeer network of manufacturing nodes,’’ Procedia Manuf., vol. 26, pp. 1180–1192, 2018. [[Angrish_et+al_aCaseStudyBlockchainManufacturing_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Angrish%2C%20A.%20Craver%2C%20B.%20Hasan%2C%20M.%20Starly%2C%20B.%20%E2%80%98A%20case%20study%20for%20blockchain%20in%20manufacturing%3A%20%E2%80%98FabRec%E2%80%99%3A%20A%20prototype%20for%20peer-topeer%20network%20of%20manufacturing%20nodes%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Angrish&title=%E2%80%98A%20case%20study%20for%20blockchain%20in%20manufacturing%3A%20%E2%80%98FabRec%E2%80%99%3A%20A%20prototype%20for%20peer-topeer%20network%20of%20manufacturing%20nodes%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Angrish%2C%20A.%20Craver%2C%20B.%20Hasan%2C%20M.%20Starly%2C%20B.%20%E2%80%98A%20case%20study%20for%20blockchain%20in%20manufacturing%3A%20%E2%80%98FabRec%E2%80%99%3A%20A%20prototype%20for%20peer-topeer%20network%20of%20manufacturing%20nodes%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Angrish%2C%20A.%20Craver%2C%20B.%20Hasan%2C%20M.%20Starly%2C%20B.%20%E2%80%98A%20case%20study%20for%20blockchain%20in%20manufacturing%3A%20%E2%80%98FabRec%E2%80%99%3A%20A%20prototype%20for%20peer-topeer%20network%20of%20manufacturing%20nodes%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^Barenji_et+al_2018_a]: A. V. Barenji, Z. Li, and W. M. Wang, ‘‘Blockchain cloud manufacturing: Shop floor and machine level,’’ in Proc. Smart SysTech-Eur. Conf. Smart Objects, Syst. Technol. Jun. 2018, pp. 1–6. [[Barenji_et+al_blockchainCloudManufacturingShopFloor_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Barenji%2C%20A.V.%20Li%2C%20Z.%20Wang%2C%20W.M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20cloud%20manufacturing%3A%20Shop%20floor%20and%20machine%20level%2C%E2%80%99%202018&author=Barenji&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20cloud%20manufacturing%3A%20Shop%20floor%20and%20machine%20level%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Barenji%2C%20A.V.%20Li%2C%20Z.%20Wang%2C%20W.M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20cloud%20manufacturing%3A%20Shop%20floor%20and%20machine%20level%2C%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Barenji%2C%20A.V.%20Li%2C%20Z.%20Wang%2C%20W.M.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20cloud%20manufacturing%3A%20Shop%20floor%20and%20machine%20level%2C%E2%80%99%202018)

[^Kobzan_et+al_2018_a]: T. Kobzan, A. Biendarra, S. Schriegel, T. Herbst, T. Mueller, and J. Jasperneite, ‘‘Utilizing blockchain technology in industrial manufacturing with the help of network simulation,’’ in Proc. IEEE 16th Int. Conf. Ind. Inform. (INDIN), Jul. 2018, pp. 152–159. A. E. C. Mondragon, C. E. C. Mondragon, and E. S. Coronado, ‘‘Exploring the applicability of blockchain technology to enhance manufacturing supply chains in the composite materials industry,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Appl. Syst. Invention (ICASI), Apr. 2018, pp. 1300–1303, doi:10.1109/ICASI.2018.8394531. [[Kobzan_et+al_utilizingBlockchainTechnologyIndustrialManufacturing_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1109/ICASI.2018.8394531)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1109/ICASI.2018.8394531)

[^Winkler-Goldstein_et+al_2018_a]: R. Winkler-Goldstein, F. Imbault, T. Usländer, and H. de la Gastine, ‘‘Fractal production reprogramming ‘industrie 4.0’ around resource and energy efficiency?’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Environ. Elect. Eng. IEEE Ind. Commercial Power Syst. Eur. (EEEIC/I&CPS Europe), Jun. 2018, pp. 1–5, doi:10.1109/EEEIC.2018.8494395. [[Winkler-Goldstein_et+al_fractalProductionReprogrammingindustrie40_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1109/EEEIC.2018.8494395)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1109/EEEIC.2018.8494395)

[^Hua_et+al_2018_a]: J. Hua, X. Wang, M. Kang, H. Wang, and F.-Y. Wang, ‘‘Blockchain based provenance for agricultural products: A distributed platform with duplicated and shared bookkeeping,’’ in Proc. IEEE Intell. Vehicles Symp. (IV), Jun. 2018, pp. 97–101. F. Lv and S. Chen, ‘‘Research on establishing a traceability system of quality and safety of agricultural products based on blockchain technology,’’ in Proc. IOP Conf. Ser., Earth Environ. Sci., London, U.K., 2016, pp. 22–26. Y. Yang and Z. Jia, ‘‘Application and challenge of blockchain technology in the field of agricultural Internet of Things,’’ Inf. Technol., vol. 258, pp. 24–26, 2017. [[Hua_et+al_blockchainBasedProvenanceAgriculturalProducts_2018]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hua%2C%20J.%20Wang%2C%20X.%20Kang%2C%20M.%20Wang%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20based%20provenance%20for%20agricultural%20products%3A%20A%20distributed%20platform%20with%20duplicated%20and%20shared%20bookkeeping%2C%E2%80%99%202018-06&author=Hua&title=%E2%80%98Blockchain%20based%20provenance%20for%20agricultural%20products%3A%20A%20distributed%20platform%20with%20duplicated%20and%20shared%20bookkeeping%2C%E2%80%99&year=2018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hua%2C%20J.%20Wang%2C%20X.%20Kang%2C%20M.%20Wang%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20based%20provenance%20for%20agricultural%20products%3A%20A%20distributed%20platform%20with%20duplicated%20and%20shared%20bookkeeping%2C%E2%80%99%202018-06) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hua%2C%20J.%20Wang%2C%20X.%20Kang%2C%20M.%20Wang%2C%20H.%20%E2%80%98Blockchain%20based%20provenance%20for%20agricultural%20products%3A%20A%20distributed%20platform%20with%20duplicated%20and%20shared%20bookkeeping%2C%E2%80%99%202018-06)

[^Qin_et+al_2014_a]: Y. M. Qin, D. L. Kong, and S. Li, ‘‘China cold-chain logistics development report,’’ Res. Markets, Tech. Rep., 2014, pp. 116–117. [[Qin_et+al_chinaColdchainLogisticsDevelopmentReport_2014]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Qin%2C%20Y.M.%20Kong%2C%20D.L.%20Li%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98China%20cold-chain%20logistics%20development%20report%2C%E2%80%99%202014&author=Qin&title=%E2%80%98China%20cold-chain%20logistics%20development%20report%2C%E2%80%99&year=2014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Qin%2C%20Y.M.%20Kong%2C%20D.L.%20Li%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98China%20cold-chain%20logistics%20development%20report%2C%E2%80%99%202014) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Qin%2C%20Y.M.%20Kong%2C%20D.L.%20Li%2C%20S.%20%E2%80%98China%20cold-chain%20logistics%20development%20report%2C%E2%80%99%202014)

[^Mahmoud_et+al_2019_a]: Q. H. Mahmoud, M. Lescisin, and M. AlTaei, ‘‘Research challenges and opportunities in blockchain and cryptocurrencies,’’ Internet Technol. Lett., vol. 2, no. 2, p. e93, Mar. 2019. D. Hofman and A. Novin, ‘‘Blocked and chained: Blockchain and the problems of transparency,’’ Proc. Assoc. Inf. Sci. Technol., vol. 55, no. 1, pp. 171–178, Jan. 2018. [[Mahmoud_et+al_researchChallengesOpportunitiesBlockchainCryptocurrencies_2019]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mahmoud%2C%20Q.H.%20Lescisin%2C%20M.%20AlTaei%2C%20M.%20Hofman%2C%20D.%20%E2%80%98Research%20challenges%20and%20opportunities%20in%20blockchain%20and%20cryptocurrencies%2C%E2%80%99%202019-03&author=Mahmoud&title=%E2%80%98Research%20challenges%20and%20opportunities%20in%20blockchain%20and%20cryptocurrencies%2C%E2%80%99&year=2019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mahmoud%2C%20Q.H.%20Lescisin%2C%20M.%20AlTaei%2C%20M.%20Hofman%2C%20D.%20%E2%80%98Research%20challenges%20and%20opportunities%20in%20blockchain%20and%20cryptocurrencies%2C%E2%80%99%202019-03) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mahmoud%2C%20Q.H.%20Lescisin%2C%20M.%20AlTaei%2C%20M.%20Hofman%2C%20D.%20%E2%80%98Research%20challenges%20and%20opportunities%20in%20blockchain%20and%20cryptocurrencies%2C%E2%80%99%202019-03)

[^Boucer_2017_a]: P. Boucer, ‘‘How blockchain technology could change our lives,’’ Eur. Union Rep., Brussels, Belgium, 2017. [[Boucer_howBlockchainTechnologyCouldChange_2017]] [OA](http://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Boucer%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98How%20blockchain%20technology%20could%20change%20our%20lives%2C%E2%80%99%202017&author=Boucer&title=%E2%80%98How%20blockchain%20technology%20could%20change%20our%20lives%2C%E2%80%99&year=2017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Boucer%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98How%20blockchain%20technology%20could%20change%20our%20lives%2C%E2%80%99%202017) [Scite](http://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Boucer%2C%20P.%20%E2%80%98How%20blockchain%20technology%20could%20change%20our%20lives%2C%E2%80%99%202017)

[^Dharmsinh_et+al_2018_a]: PIMAL KHANPARA received the B.E. degree in Information technology from Dharmsinh Desai University, Nadiad, the M.Tech. degree in computer science and engineering from Nirma University, and the Ph.D. degree in survivable mobile ad hoc networks from Gujarat Technological University, in 2018. She has been an Assistant Professor with the Computer Science and Engineering Department, Institute of Technology, Nirma University, since 2012. Her research interests are wireless network communication, network security, and computer architecture. She has been actively contributing to the domain of ad hoc networks through research articles and projects. [[Dharmsinh_et+al_DegreeSurvivableMobileNetworksFrom_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=PIMAL%20KHANPARA%20received%20the%20BE%20degree%20in%20Information%20technology%20from%20Dharmsinh%20Desai%20University%20Nadiad%20the%20MTech%20degree%20in%20computer%20science%20and%20engineering%20from%20Nirma%20University%20and%20the%20PhD%20degree%20in%20survivable%20mobile%20ad%20hoc%20networks%20from%20Gujarat%20Technological%20University%20in%202018%20She%20has%20been%20an%20Assistant%20Professor%20with%20the%20Computer%20Science%20and%20Engineering%20Department%20Institute%20of%20Technology%20Nirma%20University%20since%202012%20Her%20research%20interests%20are%20wireless%20network%20communication%20network%20security%20and%20computer%20architecture%20She%20has%20been%20actively%20contributing%20to%20the%20domain%20of%20ad%20hoc%20networks%20through%20research%20articles%20and%20projects) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=PIMAL%20KHANPARA%20received%20the%20BE%20degree%20in%20Information%20technology%20from%20Dharmsinh%20Desai%20University%20Nadiad%20the%20MTech%20degree%20in%20computer%20science%20and%20engineering%20from%20Nirma%20University%20and%20the%20PhD%20degree%20in%20survivable%20mobile%20ad%20hoc%20networks%20from%20Gujarat%20Technological%20University%20in%202018%20She%20has%20been%20an%20Assistant%20Professor%20with%20the%20Computer%20Science%20and%20Engineering%20Department%20Institute%20of%20Technology%20Nirma%20University%20since%202012%20Her%20research%20interests%20are%20wireless%20network%20communication%20network%20security%20and%20computer%20architecture%20She%20has%20been%20actively%20contributing%20to%20the%20domain%20of%20ad%20hoc%20networks%20through%20research%20articles%20and%20projects) 

[^Mewar_et+al_2016_a]: SUDHANSHU TYAGI (Senior Member, IEEE) received the Ph.D. degree from Mewar University, Chittorgarh, Rajasthan, India, in 2016. He is currently working as an Assistant Professor with the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Deemed University, Patiala, India. He has published 40 research articles in peerreviewed international journal and conferences. His research area includes lifetime enhancement of homogeneous and/or heterogeneous WSNs. He is a member of IAENG. [[Mewar_et+al_CurrentlyWorkingAssistantProfessorWith_2016]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mewar%20University%2C%20S.U.D.H.A.N.S.H.U.T.Y.A.G.I.%20Chittorgarh%2C%20Rajasthan%20India%2C%20in%20He%20is%20currently%20working%20as%20an%20Assistant%20Professor%20with%20the%20Department%20of%20Electronics%20and%20Communication%20Engineering%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mewar%20University%2C%20S.U.D.H.A.N.S.H.U.T.Y.A.G.I.%20Chittorgarh%2C%20Rajasthan%20India%2C%20in%20He%20is%20currently%20working%20as%20an%20Assistant%20Professor%20with%20the%20Department%20of%20Electronics%20and%20Communication%20Engineering%202016) 

